# View the topology of primary/standby relationships of a tenant

After you log on to the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console, you can perform the following operations to view the primary/standby relationships of a tenant: Click Tenants in the left-side navigation pane. In the **Tenants** list, select the target tenant to go to its **Overview** page. On the left side of the page, click the topology to go to the **Topology of Primary/Standby Tenants** tab.

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>If the tenant has no primary/standby relationship, you can click <b>Create Standby Tenant</b> to create a standby tenant for the current tenant. </p>
</main>

This topic describes the topology of primary/standby relationships of a tenant. You can click the icons in the upper-right corner of the canvas to resize and refresh the topology.

The topology consists of four layers:

* The first layer indicates the primary tenant.

* The second layer indicates archive logs. This layer is shown only when the **archiving-based** synchronization mode is used.

* The third layer indicates the tenant synchronization status.

* The fourth layer indicates the standby tenant.

If the tenant has a cascading relationship, which means that the current tenant is a standby tenant and it has a standby tenant, the synchronization status and standby tenant information are displayed in the lower part of the canvas.

## Primary tenant

The area of the primary tenant shows the name of the cluster to which the primary tenant belongs and the current status of the primary tenant.

## Archive logs

When the archiving-based mode is used for synchronization between the primary and standby tenants, the topology shows the information about archive logs. You can move the pointer over the archive logs icon to view the archive path.

## Tenant synchronization status

The tenant synchronization status icon shows whether the synchronization is normal and the log latency. You can move the pointer over the icon to view synchronization details.

Possible synchronization states are **Normal Synchronization**, **Log Conflict**, **Synchronization Suspended**, **Logs are missing**, and **Synchronization Error**.

* **Normal Synchronization**: The standby tenant is normally synchronizing data from the primary tenant.
* **Synchronization Error**: The OceanBase Database version of the primary tenant is later than that of the standby tenant, the primary tenant has been deleted, the log source cannot be accessed or is unreachable, or other exceptions occur.
* **Log Conflict**: The restored logs conflict with those of the standby tenant. For example, a log in the standby tenant is different from the log with the same log sequence number (LSN) in the log source.
* **Synchronization Suspended**: The synchronization is suspended.
* **Logs are missing**: Logs in the log source are incomplete.

## Standby tenant

The area of the standby tenant shows the name of the cluster to which the standby tenant belongs and the current status of the standby tenant.

Click the More icon on the right of the cluster icon to view supported operations. You can click **Enable Synchronization** or **Pause Synchronization** to start or stop data synchronization between the primary and standby tenants.
