# backup_storage_capacity_timeout_or_interrupted

## Description

This alert is triggered when the time of recovering data from a backup exceeds a threshold due to insufficient storage or the corresponding thread is interrupted.

## Alert information

| Trigger method  | Alert level |  Scope  |
|-----------------|-------------|---------|
| Reminder of OCP | Stopped     | Service |

## Alert rule

|               Metric                | Default threshold | Source | Duration | Detection cycle | Elimination cycle |
|-------------------------------------|-------------------|--------|----------|-----------------|-------------------|
| storage_capacity_monitor_error_code | N/A               | N/A    | 0s       | 30 min          | 40 min            |

## Alert templates

* Overview: \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

* Details: Cluster: ${ob_cluster_name}, Alert: ${storage_url} \${alarm_name}, Backup storage capacity timeout or interrupted. Error code: \${value}.

* Overview example:
  storage_url=file:///obbackup/yc225_214/inc_data/. The times of retrying to recover data from a backup exceed a threshold due to insufficient storage. Error code: 1001.0.

* Details example:
  Cluster: obcluster-1, Alert: file:///obbackup/yc225_214/inc_data/. Backup storage capacity timeout or interrupted. The times of retrying to recover data from a backup exceed a threshold due to insufficient storage. Error code: 1001.0.

\${alarm_target} follows the storage_url=file:///obbackup//yc225_214/inc_data/ format.

## Impact on the system

The data interval of the storage trend on the Backup \& Recovery page is greater than 30 minutes or the storage trend is not displayed.

## Possible causes

The backup storage is inaccessible or abnormal.

## Solution

Check the storage directory of the backup, and ensure that the directory is accessible.
