inc_backup_delay
=====================================

**Description**
------------------------------------

This alert is triggered when a log backup is delayed.

Principle
------------------------------

OCP-Server runs a timed task to check the log backup tasks every minute. When the log backup latency exceeds the threshold, this alert is triggered. The log backup tasks include:

1. Logical log backup

2. Physical log backup

> **Note**
>
> You can specify the threshold by modifying the value of **Alert Threshold for Log Backup Delays** in the **Configure Alert Threshold** section of the backup strategy.

**Alert rule**
-----------------------------------

| Metric | Default threshold | Duration  | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
|--------|-------------------|-----------|-----------------|-----------------------|
| None   | None              | 0 seconds | 60 seconds      | 5 minutes             |

**Alert information**
------------------------------------------

|  Trigger method   | Alert level |  Scope  |
|-------------------|-------------|---------|
| Timed task of OCP | Critical    | Service |

**Alert templates**
----------------------------------------

* Overview: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

* Details: Cluster: ${ob_cluster_name}[\${ob_cluster_id}], Host: ${host}, Alert: A log backup is delayed by ${log_backup_latency} seconds, exceeding the threshold of ${threshold} seconds, Checkpoint: ${checkpoint}, Current time: ${current_time}, Tenant list: ${tenants}.

* Overview example: ob_cluster=C1-1000. A log backup is delayed.

* Details example: Cluster: obcluster-1[10006], Host: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx, Alert: A log backup is delayed by 30 seconds, exceeding the threshold of 5 seconds, Checkpoint: 2020-01-05 02:00:00, Current time: 2020-01-15 01:00:00, Tenant list: tenant1,tenant2.

**Impact on the system**
---------------------------------------------

If the log backup is significantly delayed, the backup data is not up-to-date and the system cannot restore to the latest state or perform new physical data backup tasks.

**Possible causes**
----------------------------------------

This problem is commonly found in the following scenarios:

* An error occurred while performing a log backup task.

* Something is wrong with the backup media.

**Suggested solutions**
--------------------------------------------

* If the alert is triggered during a logical log backup task, check the agentserver.log of the backup service for troubleshooting.

* If the alert is triggered during a physical log backup task, check the OBServer logs to find the specific cause. Perform the following steps to find the logs:

  1. Log on to the OCP console. On the **Clusters** page, find the target cluster in the **Clusters** list and click its name. Then, the **Overview** page of the cluster appears.

  2. Click the **More** icon in the upper-right corner and select **Download Logs** .

     * Specify the time range, which must contain the alert time.

     * For the log type, select **OBServer Logs** .

  3. Click **Download** .

     Wait for the OBServer logs to be downloaded.

  4. Open the observer.log file and search for WARN- and ERROR-level logs.
