# Host planning

This topic introduces the number of hosts, CPU, memory, and other resources to plan for the deployment of the Community Edition of OCP.

## Host resource planning

### MetaDB

MetaDB is used to store persistent data other than monitoring data. It requires a relative small amount of resources. It is recommended to create a separate tenant in OceanBase for MetaDB and allocate a minimum of 4 CPU cores and 8 GiB of memory to this tenant.

Based on the number of OBServer nodes managed by OCP, the recommended CPU and memory resource allocation for each replica in the MetaDB tenant is as follows:

| **Number of managed OBServer nodes** | **CPU (core)** | **Memory (GiB)** |
|----------------|------------|------------|
| ≤ 10 | 4 | 8 |
| ≤ 50 | 8 | 16 |
| ≤ 100 | 16 | 32 |
| ≤ 200 | 32 | 64 |
| ≤ 400 | 64 | 128 |

### MonitorDB

During the operation of OCP, various performance data of the managed targets, mainly OceanBase clusters, will be collected and stored in MonitorDB. It is recommended to create a separate tenant in OceanBase for MonitorDB and allocate a minimum of 4 CPU cores and 16 GiB of memory to this tenant.

Based on the number of OBServer nodes managed by OCP, the recommended CPU and memory resource allocation for each replica in the MonitorDB tenant is as follows:

| **Number of managed OBServer nodes** | **CPU (core)** | **Memory (GiB)** |
|---------------|--------------|-------------|
| ≤ 10 | 4 | 16 |
| ≤ 50 | 16 | 64 |
| ≤ 100 | 32 | 128 |
| ≤ 200 | 64 | 256 |
| ≤ 400 | 128 | 512 |

### OCP

The CPU and memory resource configuration for OCP-Server is as follows, which is calculated on the condition that each OBServer node contains 10 tenants. Please calculate the required CPU and memory resources based on your actual situation.

| **Number of managed OBServer nodes** | **CPU (core)** | **Memory (GiB)** |
|----------------|------------|------------|
| ≤ 10 | 4 | 8 |
| ≤ 50 | 8 | 16 |
| ≤ 100 | 16 | 32 |
| ≤ 200 | 32 | 64 |
| ≤ 400 | 64 | 128 |

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>The minimum configuration required for OCP-Server is 4 CPU cores, 8 GiB of memory, and 500 GiB of available disk space. If the number of tenants on a single host is less than or equal to 10, it is recommended to keep the CPU and memory at 4 cores, 8 GiB. </p>
</main>

### Planning example

OCP supports GUI-based deployment. If OCP-Server, MetaDB, and MonitorDB are deployed on the same physical server, MetaDB and MonitorDB can be in different tenants in the same OceanBase cluster. Taking the resource requirements for managing 10 OBServer nodes mentioned earlier as an example, the required resources are as follows:

| Deployment item | CPU (core) | Memory (GiB) |
|--------------------|--------|--------|
| OCP-Server | 4 | 8 |
| MetaDB tenant | 4 | 8 |
| MonitorDB tenant | 4 | 16 |
| sys tenant | 5 | 28 |

Therefore, this physical server requires at least 17 CPU cores and 60 GiB of memory.

### Operating system requirements

| **Server type** | **Operating system** | **Supported version** |
|--------------|-----------|------------|
| x86_64 | Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) | 7.2 and later |
| x86_64 | CentOS | 7.2 and later |
| x86_64 | AliOS | 7.2 and later |
| x86_64 | openSUSE | 12 SP3 and later |
| AArch64 | AliOS | 7.2 and later |
| AArch64 | NeoKylin | 7.6 |
| AArch64 | Huawei EulerOS | 2.0 SP8 |
