# Disk and directory planning

This topic describes the disks and directories required for the deployment of OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Community Edition.

## Database disks

### MetaDB

The disk space required depends on factors such as the size of the managed cluster and stored files and the data retention period. We recommend that you reserve at least 100 GiB of disk space. When the available disk space of a tenant is insufficient, you can scale out the tenant as required.

### MonitorDB

If you manage no more than 10 OBServer nodes with moderate business traffic, we recommend that you reserve at least 150 GiB of disk space. If you want to manage a large amount of business traffic, use the following method to estimate the disk space required for MonitorDB:

* Estimation principles: Monitoring data can be divided into metric data and SQL execution records.

  * Metric data: The storage space used by each OBServer node increases by 100 MiB to 300 MiB daily.

  * SQL execution records: The storage space consumption is related to business transactions. In general, the space taken up by execution records is about 10 to 50 times the metric data.

   Based on empirical data, the size of SQL execution records on each OBServer node increases by 1 GiB to 40 GiB daily. It is estimated to be 20 GiB. OCP uses partitioned tables to store monitoring data. The retention period of the monitoring data varies with the data type:
  * Metric data: Second-by-second data is retained for 8 days and minute-by-minute data is retained for 31 days.

  * SQL execution records: They are retained for 8 days.

Most of the storage space is occupied by SQL execution records. You can use SQL execution records to estimate the required disk space.

* Resource estimation formulas: In the following example, server_count, which represents the total number of OBServer nodes in all managed OceanBase clusters, is used for the estimation. The disk space is estimated by using two formulas:

  * Estimated daily data increase for OCP MonitorDB = server_count × 20 GiB

  * Estimated MonitorDB space requirement = Estimated daily data increase for OCP MonitorDB × 8 days

* Example: Assume that a total of 20 OBServer nodes are running in all managed OceanBase clusters. The disk space is estimated in the following two steps:

  * Estimated daily data increase for OCP MonitorDB = 20 × 20 GiB = 400 GiB.

  * Estimated MonitorDB space requirement = 400 GiB/day × 8 days = 3,200 GiB, which is about 3.2 TiB.

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>The preceding disk space estimation result is a ballpark figure. The actual amount of resources varies with the business transactions of MonitorDB. </p>
    </main>

The following table describes the minimum space for your reference. You need to create directories with a space greater than or equal to the minimum as required.

| Directory | Storage space | Description |
|--------|------|----------|
| `/${home_path}/observer` | 20 GiB | The installation directory of OceanBase Database.  You must manually create the directory and make sure that the admin user has the read and write permissions on the directory.  |
| `/data/` | 250 GiB | The directory in which the business data of OCP is stored.  You must manually create the directory and make sure that the admin user has the read and write permissions on the directory.  |

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>You must replace <code>${home_path}</code> with the MetaDB installation path that you specified in the <b>Set parameters of MetaDB</b> step when you deployed OCP. For more information, see <a href="../500.deploy-ocp.md">Deploy OCP on the GUI</a>. </p>
</main>

## OCP disks

The following table describes the disk usage when OCP-Server is running.

| **Description** | **Storage path** | **Space requirement** |
|------------|---------|-----------|
| OCP program | <li>`/${home_path}/ocp-server/`</li><li> `/${home_path}/ocp-init/` </li> | The OCP program occupies about 1 GiB of disk space after installation. The RPM packages provided with it require about 5 GiB of space. Therefore, we recommend that you reserve 10 GiB of space.  |
| OCP main process logs | `/${home_path}/ocp/log/ocp-server.log` | The log file size and the number of retained files are configured through OCP system parameters.  By default, each log file is 100 MiB in large and retained for up to 100 days, and 5 to 10 files are generated each day. Therefore, we recommend that you reserve 100 GiB of space.  |
| OCP task logs | `/${home_path}/logs/task/` | No capacity limit is set. OCP periodically clears task logs to keep at least 20% of disk space available. Log files updated at earlier dates are cleared first. You need to reserve 100 GiB of space.  |
| Local cache for OCP files | `/${home_path}/data/files/` | No capacity limit is set. Most of the OCP files are installation packages related to targets under OCP management, and they are mostly OceanBase installation packages. The average size of each installation package is about 500 MiB. Assume that 100 installation packages are stored. You need to reserve 100 GiB of space.  |

<main id="notice" type='explain'>
<h4>Note</h4>
<p>You must replace <code>${home_path}</code> with the OCP installation path that you specified in the <b>Set parameters of OCP</b> step when you deployed OCP. For more information, see <a href="../500.deploy-ocp.md">Deploy OCP on the GUI</a>. </p>
</main>
