ob_cluster_status_check_failed
===================================================

**Description**
------------------------------------

This alert is triggered when OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) fails to detect the status of an OceanBase cluster that is managed by OCP.

Principle
------------------------------

The OCP-Server runs a timed task to detect the status of an OceanBase cluster every 60 seconds. Each time this task is executed, the OCP-Server uses the OceanBase SDK to connect to the OceanBase cluster. If the connection fails, this alert is triggered.

**Alert rule**
-----------------------------------

| Metric | Default threshold | Duration  | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
|--------|-------------------|-----------|-----------------|-----------------------|
| None   | None              | 0 seconds | 1 minute        | 5 minutes             |

Alert information
--------------------------------------

|  Trigger method   | Alert level |  Scope  |
|-------------------|-------------|---------|
| Timed task of OCP | Critical    | Cluster |

**Alert templates**
----------------------------------------

* Overview: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

* Details: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}. Check item: ${check_item}. Cause of failure: ${failed_reason}

* Overview example: ob_cluster=C1-1000. OceanBase cluster status checking failed.

* Details example: ob_cluster=C1-1000. OceanBase cluster status checking failed. Check item: cluster connect check. Cause of failure: some reason.

**Impact on the system**
---------------------------------------------

The following impacts may be caused:

* OCP cannot connect to OBProxy.

* The status of an OceanBase cluster is abnormal.

**Possible causes**
----------------------------------------

This problem is commonly found in the following scenarios:

* OCP failed to connect to the OceanBase cluster.

  * The network connection between OCP and the corresponding OBServer is disconnected.

  * The OceanBase cluster is unavailable, because the Root Service is leaderless or the sys tenant has a leaderless table.

* The sys tenant of OceanBase Database is abnormal, causing the logon failure. The problem may be caused by the following issues:

  * The sys tenant is abnormal. For example, the ocp_monitor@sys account does not exist.

  * The password of the sys tenant is incorrect.

**Suggested solutions**
--------------------------------------------

* If the cause of the failure in **Alert Details** is Access Denied, it is likely that the ocp_monitor@sys account is deleted or the password of this account is changed.

  1. Use the root@sys account to log on to the OceanBase cluster by using the CLI tool and run the following command to create an ocp_monitor@sys account.

  2. Run the following command to view the ocp_monitor account and the permissions of this account:

     ```sql
     select user_name,priv_select from __all_user; 
     ```

     Check whether ocp_monitor is included in the value of the user_name field in the returned information and whether the value of priv_select is 1.
     * If the ocp_monitor account does not exist, run the following command to create the ocp_monitor account:

       `CREATE USER IF NOT EXISTS ocp_monitor IDENTIFIED BY 'your password';`

     * If the ocp_monitor account exists but the value of priv_select is 0, run the following command to grant the global SELECT permission to the ocp_monitor account:

       `GRANT SELECT ON *.* TO ocp_monitor;`

     * If the ocp_monitor account exists and the value of priv_select is 1, the password of the ocp_monitor account may be incorrect. Run the following command to change the password:

       `ALTER USER ocp_monitor IDENTIFIED BY 'your password';`

  3. Save the ocp_monitor@sys account to the password box. For more information about how to manage the account, see [Manage OceanBase cluster connection credentials](../../4.user-guide-2/3.features/10.user-center/4.password-box.md).

     If the ocp_monitor@sys account of the cluster already exists in the password box, delete this account first.

<!-- -->

* If the cause of the failure in **Alert Details** is connection failure, perform the following steps:

  1. Check for other alerts of this OceanBase cluster in the OCP console.

     * If any, resolve these alerts and check whether the alert of this topic is cleared.

     * If not, go to Step b.

  2. Check the network connection between OCP and OBServer.

     Run the `obclient -hxxx.xxx.xxx.xxx -P2888 -u<username>@<tenantname#clustername> -p -Doceanbase` command on the OCP-Server to check whether the OceanBase cluster can be connected.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>If OCP connects to and manages this OceanBase cluster by using an OBProxy server, replace the IP address and port number of the OceanBase cluster with those of the OBProxy server.</p>
  </main>

     * If the OceanBase cluster cannot be connected, troubleshoot the issue based on the returned information of the connection failure.

       If the connection failure is caused by a network failure, contact the network administrator to resolve the issue.

       If the obproxy or observer process is faulty, restart the corresponding process.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>To check for an OBProxy or OBServer-related failure, view the following logs:</p>
    <ul>
    <li>
    <p>Log files of the OBProxy deployed from the OCP console are located in <code>/home/admin/logs/obproxy/log</code>.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
    <p>Log files of the manually deployed OBProxy are located in <code>/opt/taobao/install/obproxy-?/log</code>. The value of <code>?</code> is subject to the OBProxy version you have installed.</p>
    </li>
    <li>
    <p>The OBServer log files are saved in <code>/home/admin/oceanbase/log</code>.</p>
    </li>
    </ul>
  </main>

     * If the OceanBase cluster can be connected, go to the next step.

  3. Collect the preceding logs and contact OCP Technical Support to resolve the issue.
