same_alarm_rule_detect_too_many_targets
============================================================

Description
--------------------------------

The number of SQL alerts of the same type, for example, slow SQL alerts, exceeds the specified threshold. In this case, you need to merge these alerts into one alert. In other words, alerts of the same type triggered by different alert targets are merged into one alert when the number exceeds the threshold.

You can use the system parameter `ocp.alarm.detect.too-many-targets-alarm-threshold` to set the number of alerts for triggering an alert merge.

Alert rule
-------------------------------

| Metric | Default threshold (unit: ms) | Source | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
|--------|------------------------------|--------|-----------------|-----------------------|
| No     | No                           | No     | 60 seconds      | 5 minutes             |

Alert information
--------------------------------------

|            Trigger method             | Alert level | Scope  |
|---------------------------------------|-------------|--------|
| Based on the expression of the metric | Warning     | Server |

Alert templates
------------------------------------

* Alert overview: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

* Alert details: ${value} alert targets have hit the same alert rule ${detected_alarm_type}(${detected_alarm_name_zh_cn}). The alert targets include ${detected_alarm_targets}.

Impact on the system
-----------------------------------------

An excessive number of SQL alerts hinders the recipient from viewing important alert information. Therefore, when too many alerts of the same type are triggered, they can be merged into one and then sent to the owner. The impact on the system varies with the specific alert information.

Possible causes
------------------------------------

This alert is generated when an excessive number of alerts of the following types are generated: ob_tenant_slow_sql_exists, ob_tenant_large_trans_exist, ob_tenant_long_trans_exist, and ob_tenant_expired_trans_exist.

Solutions
------------------------------

Check the specific alert rule that triggered this alert and handle the alert by referring to the corresponding topic below:

* [ob_tenant_slow_sql_exists](45.ob_tenant_slow_sql_exists.md)

* [ob_tenant_large_trans_exist](46.ob_tenant_large_trans_exist.md)

* [ob_tenant_long_trans_exist](23.ob_server_exists_long_lived_trans.md)

* [ob_tenant_expired_trans_exist](../2.ob-alert/17.ob_host_exists_expired_trans.md)
