# base_backup_timeout

## Description

This alert is triggered when a data backup task initiated in the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) timed out.

## Principle

OCP-Server runs a scheduled task to check the log backup tasks every minute. When a log backup task timed out, this alert is triggered.

## Alert rule

| Metric | Default threshold | Duration | Detection cycle | Elimination cycle |
|----------|--------  |-------- |------------|-----------|
| N/A | N/A | 0 seconds | 60 seconds | 5 minutes |

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
|-----------    |--------   |--------|
| Reminder of OCP | Caution | Services |

## Alert template

* Alert overview

  * Template: \${alarm_target} \${alarm_name}
  * Sample: ob_cluster=obcluster-1 base_backup_timeout

* Alert details

  * Template: Cluster: \${ob_cluster_name}[\${ob_cluster_id}], Tenant: \${tenant_name}, Alert: The running duration of the data backup task exceeds the alert threshold of \${timeout_minutes_threshold} minutes.
  * Sample: Cluster: obcluster-1[10006], Tenant: obtenant, Alert: The running duration of the data backup task exceeds the alert threshold of 7 minutes.

## Impact on the system

If data backup timed out due to a backup task exception, the tenant data may fail to be recovered.

## Possible causes

This problem is commonly found in the following scenarios:

* A small timeout alert threshold is specified for data backup.
* An exception occurred when the data backup task is executed.

## Solutions

* If the data backup task finally succeeded, log on to the OCP console and choose **Backup and Recovery > Backup Strategy**. On the page that appears, increase the timeout alert threshold for data backup.

* For other reasons, collect logs to locate the problem.

  * If the alert is triggered during a logical log backup task, check the agentserver.log of the backup service for troubleshooting.``

  * If the alert is triggered during a physical log backup, check the OBServer logs to find the specific cause. Perform the following steps to find the logs:

      1. Log on to the OCP console. On the **Clusters** page, find the target cluster in the **Clusters** list and click its name. Then, the **Overview** page of the cluster appears.

      2. Click the **More** icon in the upper-right corner and select **Download Logs**.

         * Specify the time range, which must contain the alert time.

         * For the log type, select **OBServer Logs**.

      3. Click **Download Logs** to download the OBServer logs.

      4. Open the observer.log file and search for WARN- and ERROR-level logs to view the details.``