# Deploy OceanBase Database

This topic describes how to install OceanBase Database when the host is online or offline.

## Prerequisites

* Optional. The following software packages are obtained as instructed in [Prepare for the installation](../4.installation-preparation.md). Note that you need only the `obdeploy-master.zip` software package for online installation.

  * oceanbase-ce-libs-3.1.0-1.el7.x86_64.rpm

  * oceanbase-ce-3.1.0-1.el7.x86_64.rpm

  * obdeploy-master.zip

* The sshpass utility is installed on the host in which you want to deploy OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Community Edition.
  If the utility is not installed on the host, run `yum -y install sshpass` as the root user to install the utility.

## Procedure

### Online installation

1. Obtain the \*-example.yaml configuration file required for the deployment of OceanBase Database.

   \*-example.yaml files are a series of configuration files for the deployment of OceanBase Database. In this topic, single-node OceanBase Database is used as an example. To deploy single-node OceanBase Database, you must obtain the `mini-single-example.yaml` configuration file by using one of the following methods:
   * Method 1: Download the file.

     Upload the `obdeploy-master.zip` file to the `/root/` directory as the root user, and run the following commands to decompress the file. The `mini-single-example.yaml` file is decompressed to the `/root/obdeploy-master/example/` directory.

     ```shell
     yum -y install unzip
     unzip obdeploy-master.zip
     ```

   * Method 2: Create the file.

     1. Run the following commands as the root user to create a file named `mini-single-example.yaml` in the `/root/obdeploy-master/example/` directory.

        ```shell
        mkdir -p /root/obdeploy-master/example/
        touch /root/obdeploy-master/example/mini-single-example.yaml
        ```

     2. Copy corresponding content in [\*-example.yaml](../8.deploy-appendix/2.example-yaml.md) to the new file.

2. Modify the mini-single-example.yaml file.

   1. Run the `vi /root/obdeploy-master/example/mini-single-example.yaml` command, and press **i** to enter the Insert mode, so as to modify the content of the file. Example:

      ```sql
      user:
         username: ******
         password: ******
      oceanbase-ce:
        servers:
          - xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
        global:
          home_path: /home/admin/observer
          devname: bond0
          mysql_port: 2881
          rpc_port: 2882
          zone: zone1
          cluster_id: 1
          memory_limit: 50G
          system_memory: 10G
          stack_size: 512K
          cpu_count: 16
          cache_wash_threshold: 1G
          __min_full_resource_pool_memory: 268435456
          workers_per_cpu_quota: 10
          schema_history_expire_time: 1d
          schema_history_expire_time: 1d
          net_thread_count: 4
          major_freeze_duty_time: Disable
          minor_freeze_times: 10
          enable_separate_sys_clog: 0
          enable_merge_by_turn: FALSE
          datafile_disk_percentage: 20
          syslog_level: INFO
          enable_syslog_wf: false
          enable_syslog_recycle: true
          max_syslog_file_count: 4
          root_password: ********
      ```

      Parameters in the file:
      * username: the user who installs OceanBase Database, which is admin as planned.

      * password: the password of the admin user.

      * servers: the IP address of the host in which you want to install OceanBase Database.

      * home_path: the installation directory of OceanBase Database. Make sure that the admin user has the read and write permissions on this directory.

      * data_dir: the data storage directory of OceanBase Database. Make sure that the admin user has the read and write permissions on this directory.

      * redo_dir: the clog directory of OceanBase Database. Make sure that the admin user has the read and write permissions on this directory.

      * devname: the network interface controller (NIC) used by OceanBase Database. The NIC must be mounted to the host.

      * memory_limit: the maximum memory that the OBServer can use.

      * system_memory: the size of memory assigned by the OBServer to the SYS tenant.

      * cpu_count: the number of CPU cores used by OceanBase Database.

      * root_password: the password of the root user of the SYS tenant, which is used to log on to OceanBase Database as the root@sys user.

   2. Run the **`:wq`** command to save the modification and exit.

3. Run the following command to deploy the OceanBase cluster named test:

   ```shell
   obd cluster deploy test -c ./example/mini-single-example.yaml
   ```

4. Run the following command to start the cluster:

   ```shell
   obd cluster start test
   ```

5. Connect to the OceanBase database from a client and check whether the database is installed.

   * If you use an OBClient, run the following command: obclient -h192.168.0.1 -uroot@sys -P2881

   * If you use a MySQL client, run the following command: mysql -h192.168.0.1 -uroot@sys -P2881

### Offline installation

1. Run the following command as the root user to delete the remote repository:

   ```shell
   rm -fr ~/.obd/mirror/remote/*.repo
   ```

2. Upload the following software packages to any directory as the root user:

   * oceanbase-ce-libs-3.1.0-1.el7.x86_64.rpm

   * oceanbase-ce-3.1.0-1.el7.x86_64.rpm

3. Run the following command to load the uploaded software packages to the local image:

   ```shell
   obd mirror clone *.rpm
   ```
