no_port_mapping_for_exporter 
=================================================



**Description** 
------------------------------------

Monitoring data is obtained by using HTTP pull requests. OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) V3.1.1 provides six types of exporters, and they return different types of data. Three types of exporters are used to return the monitoring data of OBServers, two types of exporters are used to return the monitoring data of OBProxy servers, and one type of exporters is used to return the monitoring data of the hosts. In OCP V2.4.x and earlier versions, each exporter uses a different listening port. In OCP V2.5.x and later versions, they use the same listening port. When an exporter is started but no listening port is available, this alert is triggered.

Principle 
------------------------------

The OCP-Agent collects the server monitoring data and checks the key startup parameters when it is started. This alert is triggered if no listening port is available for the exporters.

**Alert rule** 
-----------------------------------



| Metric | Default threshold | Source | Duration  | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
|--------|-------------------|--------|-----------|-----------------|-----------------------|
| None   | None              | None   | 0 seconds | 60 seconds      | 5 minutes             |



**Alert information** 
------------------------------------------



|         Trigger method         | Alert level | Scope  |
|--------------------------------|-------------|--------|
| OCP-Agent pushes alerts to OCP | Stopped     | Server |



**Alert templates** 
----------------------------------------

* Overview: \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

  

* Details: \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

  

* Overview example: service=OCP:svr_ip=192.168.0.1. No listening port is available for the exporters.

  

* Details example: service=OCP:svr_ip=192.168.0.1. No listening port is available for the exporters.

  




**Impact on the system** 
---------------------------------------------

OCP cannot collect metrics from a faulty host. Some metrics are used for alert detection. If alert-related metrics are unavailable, the corresponding alert feature is unavailable.

**Possible cause** 
---------------------------------------

The ports are in use by other applications.

**Suggested solution** 
-------------------------------------------

1. Run the following netstat command on the host to check for the applications that are using ports from 62881 to 63881: 

   ```shell
   netstat -anp| grep -E '(62|63)[0-9]{3}'
   ```

   

2. Terminate the process found in Step 1.

   

3. Log on to the host that triggered the alert and restart the OCP-Agent. For more information, see [OCP-Agent O\&M script](../4.alarm-appendix/4.use-ocp-agent-scripts.md).

   



