inc_backup_delay 
=====================================



**Description** 
------------------------------------

This alert is triggered when a log backup is delayed.

Principle 
------------------------------

OCP-Server runs a timed task to check the log backup tasks every minute. When the log backup latency exceeds the threshold, this alert is triggered. The log backup tasks include:

1. Logical log backup

   

2. Physical log backup

   



**Note**



You can specify the threshold by modifying the value of **Alert Threshold for Log Backup Delays** in the **Configure Alert Threshold** section of the backup strategy.

**Alert rule** 
-----------------------------------



| Metric | Default threshold | Duration  | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
|--------|-------------------|-----------|-----------------|-----------------------|
| None   | None              | 0 seconds | 60 seconds      | 5 minutes             |



**Alert information** 
------------------------------------------



|  Trigger method   | Alert level |  Scope  |
|-------------------|-------------|---------|
| Timed task of OCP | Critical    | Service |



**Alert templates** 
----------------------------------------

* Overview: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

  

* Details: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

  

* Overview example: ob_cluster=C1-1000. A log backup is delayed.

  

* Details example: ob_cluster=C1-1000. A log backup is delayed.

  




**Impact on the system** 
---------------------------------------------

If the log backup is significantly delayed, the backup data is not up-to-date and the system cannot restore to the latest state or perform new physical data backup tasks.

**Possible causes** 
----------------------------------------

This problem is commonly found in the following scenarios:

* An error occurred while performing a log backup task.

  

* Something is wrong with the backup media.

  




**Suggested solutions** 
--------------------------------------------

* If the alert is triggered during a logical log backup task, check the agentserver.log of the backup service for troubleshooting.

  

* If the alert is triggered during a physical log backup task, check the OBServer logs to find the specific cause. Perform the following steps to find the logs: 

  1. Log on to the OCP console. On the **Clusters** page, find the target cluster in the **Clusters** list and click its name. Then, the **Overview** page of the cluster appears.

     
  
  2. Click the **More** icon in the upper-right corner and select **Download Logs** . 

     * Specify the time range, which must contain the alert time.

       
     
     * For the log type, select **OBServer Logs** .

       
     

     
  
  3. Click **Download** . 

     Wait for the OBServer logs to be downloaded.
     
  
  4. Open the observer.log file and search for WARN- and ERROR-level logs.

     
  

  



