base_backup_fail 
=====================================



**Description** 
------------------------------------

This alert is triggered when a data backup task initiated in the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) system failed.

Principle 
------------------------------

OCP-Server runs a timed task to check the data backup tasks every minute and triggers this alert in the following circumstances:

* A data backup task fails in the last 5 minutes.

  

* The duration of a logical backup task exceeds the timeout threshold.

  

* The duration of a physical backup task exceeds the timeout threshold.

  




**Alert rule** 
-----------------------------------



| Metric | Default threshold | Duration  | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
|--------|-------------------|-----------|-----------------|-----------------------|
| None   | None              | 0 seconds | 60 seconds      | 5 minutes             |



**Alert information** 
------------------------------------------



| Trigger method  | Alert level |  Scope  |
|-----------------|-------------|---------|
| Reminder of OCP | Critical    | Service |



**Alert templates** 
----------------------------------------

* Overview: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

  

* Details: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

  

* Overview example: ob_cluster=C1-1000. A data backup task failed.

  

* Details example: ob_cluster=C1-1000. A data backup task failed.

  




${alarm_target} follows the ob_cluster=xxxxxxx:svr_ip=xxxxxx format. 

* ob_cluster indicates the name of the cluster that generated the alert.

  

* svr_ip indicates the IP address of the OBServer of the cluster that generated the alert.

  




**Impact on the system** 
---------------------------------------------

When a data backup task failed, the tenant may not be able to be recovered.

**Possible cause** 
---------------------------------------

The cause of the failure varies.

**Suggested solution** 
-------------------------------------------

View the log of the backup component to locate the cause of the failure. 

The component log file agentserver.log is stored in the /home/admin/oceanbase/log directory of the server where the backup service is located.

