base_backup_too_long_time_no_one_success_task 
==================================================================



Description 
--------------------------------

This alert is triggered when no data is backed up for a long time.

Alert information 
--------------------------------------



|               Trigger method               | Alert level |  Scope  |
|--------------------------------------------|-------------|---------|
| Reminder of OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) | Critical    | Service |



Alert rule 
-------------------------------



| Metric | Default threshold | Source | Duration | Detection cycle | Elimination cycle |
|--------|-------------------|--------|----------|-----------------|-------------------|
| N/A    | N/A               | N/A    | 0s       | 60s             | 5 min             |



Alert templates 
------------------------------------

* Overview \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

  

* Details: ${alarm_description}

  

* Overview example: ob_cluster=C1-1000. No data backup succeeded in a specified period.

  

* Details example: obCluster: C1-1000, no successful data backup in 9 days, last successful time: 2020-01-05 02:00:00, current time: 2020-01-15 01:00:00, service ip: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx, error message:

  




Impact on the system 
-----------------------------------------

Data restoration is slow, which may affect the restorability of data.

Possible causes 
------------------------------------

* The last backup task failed.

  

* Failed to schedule the backup task.

  




Solutions 
------------------------------

* Backup task failed. View the error message of the backup task or view logs to clarify the cause of the error. 

  1. Log on to OCP and click the target cluster name in the **Clusters** area of the **Cluster Overview** page.

     
  
  2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Backup \& Recovery** .

     
  

  

  Check whether the last backup task failed. If yes, click on the right side to view details. If not, the backup task may fail to be scheduled.
  

* Failed to schedule the backup task.

  1. Log on to OCP and click the target cluster name in the **Clusters** area of the **Cluster Overview** page.

     
  
  2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Backup \& Recovery** .

     
  

  

  On the Backup \& Recovery page, click the URL to open the backup scheduling records and check whether the last backup scheduling failed. You can view task logs to confirm the cause of the failure.
  



