# FAQ about deployment

This topic lists and provides solutions to general problems that may occur when you deploy OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP).

**Q1: What do I do if OceanBase Admin Toolkit (OAT) cannot be accessed after I initialize a native task?**

A: The OAT container starts in the default `docker bridge` network mode. In this mode, the system kernel parameter `net.ipv4.ip_forward` must be set to `1`. When you initialize the server on which OAT is installed, if you set the purpose of the server to `observer`, OAT will set this parameter to `0`, which will cause the OAT service to be inaccessible.
Solution: Change the system kernel parameter `sysctl -w net.ipv4.ip_forward` to `1` to temporarily enable forwarding. We recommend that you use the `docker host` network mode to start the OAT container. The default listening ports of OAT are `7000` and `3306`. If you choose the `docker host` network mode to start the OAT container, make ensure that the server on which OAT is installed has no conflicting services.

**Q2: Where are OAT log files stored?**

A: When OAT is started, you need to mount a `data` directory to store all persistent data of OAT. You can run the `docker inspect <oat container name> -f '{{.Mounts}}'` command to view the path of the `data` directory. OAT log files are in the `logs` folder under this directory. `server.std` records logs of web services and `scheduler.std` records logs of the internal task scheduler.  

**Q3: How do I configure load balancing?**

A: When OCP is deployed on multiple nodes, two load balancing addresses are required:

1. Layer 7 HTTP proxy: The backend is the web service port of OCP on multiple servers. Session retention must be enabled for load balancing. In this way, you can directly use the browser to access OCP or some processes can use the service interface provided by OCP.
2. Layer 4 TCP proxy: The backend is the service port (`2883` by default) of the MetaDB on multiple servers. If you use NLB or OBDNS as the load balancer, you do not need to specify the layer 4 proxy. The configuration will be automatically completed during the deployment of OCP.
