FAQ on upgrade
===================================

This topic describes frequently asked questions about OCP upgrade.

Version mapping
------------------------------------

**Q1: Do I need to upgrade OAT-CLI before upgrading OCP?**

A: We recommend that you upgrade it to the latest version.

**Q2: Do I need to upgrade the OceanBase clusters managed by OCP to the corresponding version after I upgrade OCP?**

A: You may choose to upgrade them based on your business needs.

Upgrade OCP-Agent
--------------------------------------

**Q1: Do I need to re-upload the OCP-Agent package after I upgrade the OCP-Agent ?**

A: If the OCP-Agent package already exists in the software package list, you do not need to re-upload it. Otherwise, you have to re-upload it.

Upgrade MetaDB
-----------------------------------

**Q1: How do I know whether `with-backup` is required for the upgrade of MetaDB?**

A: With the `with-backup` parameter, a backup MetaDB is created during the upgrade. Typically, you need to select `with-backup` for a upgrade with backup and recovery features.

**Q2: An error of the transaction timeout type is reported for the backup MetaDB during OCP upgrade. What should I do ?**

A: Take the following steps to solve the problem:

1. Run the following command before executing the mysqldump command to increase the tenant SQL time-out period:

   ```sql
     mysql -h HOST -P PORT -u USER@TENANT -pPASSWORD -Bs -e "set global ob_query_timeout = @@ob_query_timeout * 100;set global ob_trx_timeout = @@ob_trx_timeout * 100;"
   ```

2. Run the mysqldump command and then run the following command to recover the tenant SQL timeout period:

   ```sql
   mysql -h HOST -P PORT -u USER@TENANT -pPASSWORD -Bs -e "set global ob_query_timeout = @@ob_query_timeout / 100;set global ob_trx_timeout = @@ob_trx_timeout / 100;"
   ```
