FAQ on alerts
==================================

This topic describes frequently asked questions about OCP alerts.

Alert channels
-----------------------------------

**Q1: How can I configure an alert channel so that notifications can be sent through the configured channel?**

A: You can map alert items with an alert channel through Alert Subscription. For more information, see [Creat alert push](../900.monitoring-and-alerts-functions/200.alert-management/600.manage-alert-push/100.create-an-alert-push.md).

Alert subscriptions
----------------------------------------

**Q1: Can I view all events if I do not subscribe to the alert feature by using the admin account?**

A: In OCP V2.3.x and earlier versions, you are not allowed to view events if you do not subscribe to the alert feature, even by using the admin account. In OCP V2.5.0 and later versions, you can view events by using the admin account.

View alerts
--------------------------------

**Q1: I can see a new alert message in the database but I cannot find it on the OCP alert page.** **Why?**

A: You may have specified an incorrect source. We recommend that you change the source of alerts and check for the alert on the alert page again.

Clear alerts
---------------------------------

**Q1: What can I do if I receive the system OBProxy unavailable alert** **?**

A: We recommend that you clear the alert by following the solution in **Alert Reference** for OCP V3.1.0.

**Q2: What is the meaning of the OB_SIZE_OVERFLOW** **alert** **?**

A: You can look up the meaning of this alert in the OCP documentation based on the error code in Alert Details. If the error code does not exist in the OCP documentation, we recommend that you contact OceanBase technical support.

**Q3:** **What can I do if the alert indicating an agent upgrade failure persists after I corrected the data in the table?**

A: Check whether the OCP-Agent version in the ocp_host table is consistent with the OCP-Agent version on the host?

 <main id="notice" type='notice'>
 <h4>Notice</h4>
 <p>In OCP V2.4.x and later versions, OCP-Agent and OB-Agent are combined into OCP-Agent.</p>
 </main>

**Q4: How can I calculate the CPU utilizaton of a tenant?**

A: You can query CPU events in v$sysstat.

```sql
select /*+read_consistency(weak)*/ tenant_name, tenant_id, stat_id, value 
from v$sysstat, __all_tenant 
where stat_id IN (
```

Use the following formula to calculate the CPU utilization: `100 × sum(sysstat_value{metric_group="sysstat",stat_id="140006",@LABELS}) by (@GBLABELS)/sum(sysstat_value{metric_group="sysstat",stat_id="140005",@LABELS}) by (@GBLABELS)`
