FAQ on the OCP system
==========================================

This topic describes frequently asked questions about the OCP system.

Features and version mapping
-------------------------------------------------

**Q1: Is Apache HTTP Server used in OCP ?**

A: OCP V2.0 and later versions use embedded Apache Tomcat.

Display
----------------------------

**Q1: The OCP logon page cannot be loaded. What can I do?**

A: Use Chrome 81 or later versions.

**Q2: The task page cannot be displayed. What can I do?**

A: Check the version of your browser. We recommend that you upgrade your browser to the latest version.

Logon
--------------------------

**Q1: I am prohibited from logging on after I entered the incorrect username or password too many times. What can I do** **?**

A: If you entered an incorrect user name, you can try again after 10 minutes. If you entered a wrong password, you can try again after 30 minutes. Please wait. You may also run the `docker restart ocp` command to pull up the OCP container again.

**Q2: What can I do when an error occurs when logging on to the OCP console?**

A: Enable the developer mode on the browser and log on again to view the traceId and serverIp parameters in the response.

**Q3: On the OCP console, the system reported: " The time difference between the client and the server is too big, which is xx seconds. Correct the time on the client or server. The time difference must be less than 60 seconds. ", What can I do?**

A: Check the time on the client and the server, and adjust the time to a consistent value.

Usage
--------------------------

**Q1: When the OCP system executes a task, the latency between nodes is large. What can I do** **?**

A: The task execution progress on each node cannot be manually intervened.

**Q2: Can I close a session by using a GUI button on the OCP console?**

A: Yes. You can select the target session and click **Close Session** that appears in the lower right corner.

O\&M
-------------------------

**Q1: Why does the OCP container fail to start after the server where the OCP container resides is restarted** **?**

A: The relevant container directories are not mounted after the physical server is restarted.

**Q2: How do I connect to the MetaDB by using a CLI tool?**

A: You can run the `obclient -h xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx -P30093 -uroot@ocp_meta#obcluster -p******` command and obtain the password by using the `/tools/getpass.sh` script.

**Q3: Is there a table definition description for MetaDB?**

A: Yes. Contact OceanBase technical support to get it.

**Q4: What is the API for detecting clock offset on OCP? Due to permission issues, clockdiff cannot be used for comparison. Therefore, I would like to manually call the API to query the clock offset.**

A: The OCP does not provide an API to detect clock offset.

**Q5: What is the strategy for log_cleaner to clean up observer.log in OCP?**

A: The OCP does not clean the log file if the `/home/admin/oceanbase/log` directory occupies no more than 80% of the disk space, retains only the latest 100 files when the directory occupies more than 80% of the disk space.
