Features 
=============================

This section describes the core features of OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP).

Security 
-----------------------------

The security feature comprises three parts: user management, role management, and user center.

OCP users obtain management permissions on various resources based on their roles. You can manage all OCP users and roles through user management and role management, including creating, modifying, or deleting users and roles.

You can also grant and revoke permissions for roles to implement most user management functions of common enterprise database monitoring software.

The user center allows OCP users to manage their personal security information, such as personal settings, passwords, and alert subscriptions.

Cluster management 
---------------------------------------

OCP provides full lifecycle management features for OceanBase clusters, such as cluster installation, maintenance, performance monitoring, configuration, upgrade, and removal. These features meet most OceanBase cluster management requirements of users.

Tenant management 
--------------------------------------

OCP also offers various management features for OceanBase tenants, such as tenant creation, tenant topology, performance monitoring, session management, and parameter management.

Monitoring and alerts 
------------------------------------------

Monitoring and alerting are an important part of enterprise-level IT management software. OCP supports monitoring on OceanBase clusters, tenants, and hosts.

You can use the built-in alerts to meet basic requirements or configure custom alerts. You can also use templates to configure HTTP and custom script channels for various message channels.

Host management 
------------------------------------

The host management feature allows you to view host information and add or delete hosts.

Backup and restoration 
-------------------------------------------

The backup and restoration feature allows you to perform full, incremental, and log backups of OceanBase clusters and tenants.

System management 
--------------------------------------

The system management feature allows you to manage tasks and OCP parameters.

The task management function allows you to view tasks and manage running tasks.

The parameter management function allows you to manage OCP system parameters based on your business requirements.



