FAQ on monitoring metrics
==============================================

This topic describes frequently asked questions about monitoring metrics on the **Cluster Overview** , **Tenant Overview** , and **OBProxy** pages.

Display
----------------------------

**Q1: The real-time monitoring information can be properly displayed in Chrome of other computers. Why cannot it be displayed in Chrome of my local PC** **?**

A: The OCP time may be different from the local PC time. Call `/api/v2/time` in the browser to view the OCP time and check whether the OCP time is much different from the local PC time.

**Q2:** **What can I do after I checked the exporter of three** **OceanBase** **servers and run the** **`curl`** **command to check** **the OceanBase** **servers on the OCP host to find no issue** **, but OCP does not display monitoring data in real time?**

A: You can check whether the time of the OCP server is much different from the time of the browser server. We recommend that you keep the time difference within 30s.

Clusters
-----------------------------

**Q1:** **Why does the OCP cluster page not display top 5 performance metrics and other monitoring pages display error code 504?**

A: The network may be faulty. Check for the network connection issue. If the network connection is normal, we recommend that you update the OCP image to the latest version.

**Q2: What is the sorting basis of the top 5 performance metrics on the O** **CP cluster page** **?**

A: The sorting basis of the top 5 performance metrics is the sum of values of a metric in the specified period.

**Q3: Is the** **Used Disk Space** **displayed on the** **Cluster Overview** **page a sum of the sizes of** **multiple replicas** **or the size of a** **single replica** **?**

A: The Used Disk Space displayed on the Cluster Overview page is the sum of the sizes of multiple replicas.

**Q4: How is the** **Allocated Memory** **in** **Resource Usage** **on the** **Cluster Overview** **page calculated** **?**

A: The Allocated Memory is the ratio of the sum of units allocated to the servers in a tenant to the total memory size of the servers.

**Q5: Why is the system memory as great as** **900 GB** **?**

A: The resources or features shared by tenants on OBServer are internal memory of the system and they are also a part of the system memory. Therefore, the system memory is great. You can configure the **system_memory_percentage** parameter to adjust the upper limit of the percentage of the internal memory to the system memory.

APIs
-------------------------

**Q1: Can I obtain monitoring data of OCP through the API** **?**

A: Yes, you can obtain monitoring data through the API from OCP V2.5.0 or later. For more information, see [API Reference](../../1900.reference-guide/200.api-reference/100.api-overview.md).

**Q2: Based on the description in** [Query monitoring data](../../1900.reference-guide/200.api-reference/900.monitoring/200.query-monitoring-data.md) **, the data sampling** **`interval`** **is 60. Is the sampling point in the returned result based on the past minute or the point in time when the sampling occurs** **?**

A: The sampling point in the returned result is based on the past minute.
