# Check after deployment

After you deploy OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP), you can verify the installation by verifying the OCP features, log files, OCP version, time, and Docker container.

## Verify OCP features

After OCP is deployed, refer to the User Guide and verify that the following features are available:

* Configure the alert channel to verify that it is available.

* Verify the basic features, including importing hosts, creating clusters, creating tenants, and viewing monitoring data.

* Configure alert subscription to verify that the subscription feature is available.

## Verify log files

* Verify that the ocp.log file is stored in the `/home/admin/logs/ocp` directory.

* Verify that the `/home/admin/logs/ocp/ocp.log` file does not contain any Error-level logs.

## Verify the OCP version

Run the following command to query the OCP-Server version. If the value of buildVersion in the response matches the OCP-Server version, the OCP-Server version is correct.

```javascript
curl --user <username>:<password> 'http://<OCP_HOST>:<OCP_PORT>/api/v2/info'
```

## Verify the clock time

Run the following command to query the OCP-Server time. If the time in the response is correct, the clock of OCP-Server functions properly.

```javascript
curl 'http://xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:8080/api/v2/time'
```

## Verify the Docker container

After you deploy OCP in a Docker container, you need to verify that the Docker container functions properly.

* Run the `docker stats ocp` command to verify the status, CPU utilization, and memory usage of the Docker container.

* Run the `docker exec -it ocp bash` command to access the Docker image console. Then, run the `pgrep -a java` command to verify the java process and JVM startup parameters.

## Verify the software package

After OCP is started, it automatically uploads some software packages to OCP-Server. Log on to the OCP console and click **Package** in the left-side navigation pane. In the software package list, find the `t-oceanbase-ocp-agent-<version>-<buildNumber>.<operatingSystem>.<architecture>.rpm` package and verify its version, operating system, and architecture.
