# What is OceanBase Cloud Platform?

OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) is an enterprise-level database management platform with OceanBase Database as its core.

As a significant step toward higher availability, OCP V3.3.0 provides multiple zones for the management of OceanBase clusters with multiple replicas across cities. This mode effectively reduces the bandwidth consumption and latency caused by the cross-city O\&M of OCP. This version also greatly lowers the requirement for the backup storage capacity by supporting secondary data backup of OceanBase clusters. In this version, all OCP features are improved.

OCP V3.3.0 supports all major versions of OceanBase Database from V1.4 to V2.2. It offers full lifecycle management of OceanBase clusters and tenants. It also supports the management of OceanBase-related resources, such as hosts, networks, and software packages, to help you manage OceanBase clusters more efficiently at lower IT maintenance costs.

As an enterprise-level database management platform with OceanBase Database as its core, OCP has a wealth of features:

* Efficient OceanBase cluster management

  * OCP supports high availability deployment.

  * OCP responds to requests in seconds.

* Clear information framework

  * The new object-oriented architecture offers immersive management of every single cluster or tenant to better fit your habits.

  * Modules in the immersive navigation pane are divided based on the work scenarios of DBAs to provide clearer access to the corresponding features.

* Smooth and efficient user operations

  * The core jobs are properly organized to provide a clear and continuous process.

  * OCP provides quick access to maintenance tasks, which allows you to instantly switch to these tasks from any page.

* Visual experience

  * You can see a clear flowchart and an interactive canvas on the task details page. They can help you efficiently manage your tasks.

  * The newly provided topologies of clusters and tenants reveal the distributed business logic, running status, and key data.

* Professional features

  * OCP provides full lifecycle management over OceanBase clusters.

  * All management functions of OCP are designed based on features of OceanBase Database.

  * OCP provides progressive management from clusters to sessions.

  * OCP provides well-designed topologies.
