# Features

This topic describes the core features of OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP). 

## Security

This includes user management, role management, and a user center. 

In OCP, management permissions on various resources are granted to users via roles. In the user management and role management modules, you can manage the users and roles of OCP, including creating, modifying, or deleting users and roles. 

You can also grant permissions to and revoke permissions from roles. These cover most user management features required in common enterprise-level database monitoring software. 

The user center provides various functions for personal security management, including personal settings, password box, and alert subscription management for OCP users. 

## Cluster management

OCP provides management features for OceanBase clusters throughout their lifecycle, including cluster installation, O&M, performance monitoring, configuration, upgrade, and deletion, covering most user requirements for managing OceanBase clusters. 

## Tenant management

OCP provides a variety of management features for OceanBase Database tenants, including tenant creation, tenant topology, performance monitoring, session management, and parameter management. 

## OBProxy management

OCP provides full-lifecycle management for OBProxy, including cluster creation, deletion, scaling, and upgrade. 

## Backup and recovery

As the core feature for ensuring high availability of OceanBase Database, backup and recovery ensures data security by preventing data loss caused by misoperations or damage to the storage media, as well as data loss in other cases. Lost data can be recovered to the online cluster based on the backup files. This feature includes full backup, incremental backup, and log backup for OceanBase clusters and OceanBase Database tenants. 

## Performance diagnostics

The performance diagnostics feature is responsible for performance display and problem diagnostics of OceanBase clusters, including SQL diagnostics and performance report generation. SQL diagnostics include the diagnostics of TopSQL, SlowSQL, suspicious SQL statements. Performance reports include Automatic Workload Repository (AWR) and Active Session History (ASH) reports. 

## Monitoring and alerts

Monitoring and alerts are an important part of enterprise-level IT management software. OCP supports monitoring on OceanBase clusters and hosts, as well as OceanBase Database tenants. 

You can use the built-in alerts to meet basic requirements or configure custom alerts. You can also use templates to configure HTTP and custom script channels for various message channels. 

## Host management

The host management feature enables you to view host information and add or delete hosts. 

## System management

OCP allows you to perform task management and OCP parameter management. 

You can view tasks and manage running tasks.

You can also set OCP system parameters based on your own business requirements. 
