# Manage users

This topic describes how to modify the system privileges and role of a user, and add objects.

## Precautions

Only a primary tenant has the user management permissions.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Tenants** to go to the Tenants page.

2. In the **Tenants** section, click the name of an Oracle tenant to go to the details page of the tenant.

3. In the left-side navigation pane, click **User Management**. On the page that appears, click the **Users** tab.

4. Find the target user in the **Users** list, and click the username. The user details page appears.

   On this page, you can perform the following operations:
   * Modify the system privileges of the user: Click **Modify System Permissions**. In the dialog box that appears, select privileges from the drop-down list or remove existing privileges.

   * Change the user role: Click **Modify Role**. In the dialog box that appears, select roles from the drop-down list.

   * Add objects that are accessible to the user: Click **Add Object**. In the dialog box that appears, specify the following information:

      | Parameter | Description |
      |------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
      | Object Type | Available options: **Table**, **View**, and **Stored Procedure**.  Note that you can add only one type of objects at a time. To add different types of objects, you need to add them separately.  |
      | Object | You can select objects of other users, so that the current user can access these objects.  You can paste one or more objects into the field in the format of "username.object name", such as schemaname.tablename. Separate objects with commas (,).  |
      | Grant Permission | Select the privileges to be granted as needed. For more information, see [System privileges](../300.system-privileges-in-a-mysql-tenant.md).  |

      After the accessible objects are added, the user can access and perform operations on these objects within the granted privileges.

   * Delete objects:

      * Delete an object: In the **Accessible Objects** list, locate the row that contains the target object, and click **Delete** in the Actions column.

      * Batch delete objects: In the **Accessible Objects** list, select the target objects, and click the **Batch Delete** button.

      After an accessible object is deleted, the user can no longer access the object.

   * Modify object privileges:

      * Modify the privileges on an object: In the **Accessible Objects** list, locate the row that contains the target object, and click **Modify Privilege** in the Actions column.

      * Batch modify privileges on objects: In the **Accessible Objects** list, select the target objects, and click the **Batch Modify Privileges** button.
