# base_secondary_backup_fail

## Description

This alert is triggered when a secondary data backup task initiated in the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) failed.

## Principle

OCP-Server runs a scheduled task to check the secondary log backup tasks every minute. When a secondary log backup task failed, this alert is triggered.

## Alert rule

| Metric | Default threshold | Duration | Detection cycle | Elimination cycle |
|----------|--------  |-------- |------------|-----------|
| N/A | N/A | 0 seconds | 60 seconds | 5 minutes |

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
|-----------    |--------   |--------|
| Reminder of OCP | Critical | Services |

## Alert template

* Alert overview
  * Template: \${alarm_target} \${alarm_name}
  * Sample: ob_cluster=obcluster-1 base_secondary_backup_fail
* Alert details
  * Template: Cluster: \${ob_cluster_name}[\${ob_cluster_id}], Alert: base_secondary_backup_fail, Task started at: \${start_time}, Task ended at: \${finish_time}
  * Sample: Cluster: obcluster-1[10006], Alert: base_secondary_backup_fail, Task started at: 2020-01-05T02:00:00Z, Task ended at: 2020-01-05T03:00:00Z

## Impact on the system

If a secondary backup task executed to recover a tenant failed, the tenant data cannot be recovered.

## Possible causes

There are various causes. You must locate the problem based on the specific cause.

## Solutions

Check the OBServer logs for details.

1. Log on to the OCP console. On the **Clusters** page, find the target cluster in the **Clusters** list and click its name. Then, the **Overview** page of the cluster appears.

2. Click the **More** icon in the upper-right corner and select **Download Logs**.

   * Specify the time range, which must contain the alert time.
   * For the log type, select **OBServer Logs**.

3. Click **Download Logs** to download the OBServer logs.

4. Open the observer.log file and search for WARN- and ERROR-level logs to view the details.
