# mgragent_process_stop

## Description

This alert is triggered when the ocp_mgragent process stops. 

The ocp_agent process monitors the uptime of the processes of components in OceanBase Database. When the uptime of a process is 0, the process is stopped. This alert indicates that the process has stopped at the moment rather than for a long time. In the latter case, other status alerts are triggered. 

Relevant alerts:

* observer process: observer_process_stop
* obproxy process: obproxy_process_stop
* obproxyd.sh process: obproxyd_process_stop
* ocp_agentd process: agentd_process_stop
* ocp_mgragent process: mgragent_process_stop
* ocp_monagent process: monagent_process_stop

## Principle

| Parameter | Value |
|--------|---------------------------------|
| Metric | mgragent_uptime_delta_seconds |
| Source | The difference between the current time and the process creation time displayed in the 14th column of the `stat` file in the `/proc/[pid]` directory.   |
| Collected metric | process_uptime_seconds |
| Metric expression | 0 - min(delta(process_uptime_seconds{name="ocp_mgragent",@LABELS}[@INTERVAL])) by (@GBLABELS) |
| Collection cycle | 5 seconds |

## Alert rule

| Metric expression | Metric description | Default threshold | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
|------|------|------|------|------|
| mgragent_uptime_delta_seconds > 0 | The negative offset value of uptime is used. A metric value greater than 0 indicates that the process has stopped.  | 0 seconds | 10 seconds | 5 minutes |

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
|------|------|------|
| Based on the expression of the metric | Warning | Host |

## Alert templates

* Overview

   * Template: `${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}`
   * Example: `alarm_template_id=0:ob_cluster=AdminMETA-12:host=11.162.217.145. The ocp_mgragent process stopped.`

* Details

   * Template: `Cluster: ${ob_cluster_name}. Host: ${host}. Alert: ${alarm_name}. The process has been running for ${value_shown}.` 
   * Example: `Cluster: AdminMETA. Host: 11.162.217.145. Alert: The ocp_mgragent process stopped. The process has been running for 34 minutes 8 seconds.` 

## Impact on the system

OCP-Agent uses the ocp_mgragent process for the O&M of OBServer nodes and OBProxies. The stop of the ocp_mgragent process brings the following results:

1. The ongoing O&M operations are terminated. The operations may be associated with an O&M task on the OCP server and the O&M task will fail. You can retry the task. 

2. If the ocp_mgragent process stops and is not started by the ocp_agentd process, new O&M tasks cannot be executed. In this case, a host_unavailable alert is reported. 

## Possible causes

* A process bug causes an execution error and the process unexpectedly exits.
* A monitoring configuration error, for example, a YAML syntax error of a custom configuration in the `module_config` file stored in the `/home/admin/ocp_agent/conf/` directory.
* An expected O&M action. In this case, you can restart the OCP-Agent in the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console. 

## Solutions

1. If the process exits due to a bug, you can search the `ocp_mgragent.error.log` file for the `panic` keyword to check the bug. In this case, if the daemon process fails to restart the ocp_mgragent process, you can manually restart it. 

   ```shell
   /home/admin/ocp_agentctl service start ocp_mgragent
   ```

2. If the process fails to restart due to a configuration error, you can correct the custom configuration and then start the process. 
