# Install OAT

You can deploy OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) on the GUI of OceanBase Admin Toolkit (OAT), a tool used to automatically deploy products in the OceanBase ecosystem. Before you deploy OCP, install OAT first.

For more information, see [Install OAT](https://www.oceanbase.com/docs/enterprise-oat-doc-cn-10000000001092535).

## Prerequisites

Before you deploy OAT, make sure that:

* Your operating system meets conditions listed in the following table.

   | Architecture | Operating system | Supported version |
   |---------|---------|------|
   | x86_64 | Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) | 7.2 and later |
   | x86_64 | CentOS | 7.2 and later |
   | x86_64 | AliOS | 7.2 and later |
   | x86_64 | openSUSE | 12 SP3 and later |
   | ARM AArch64 | AliOS | 7.2 and later |
   | ARM AArch64 | NeoKylin | 7.6 |
   | ARM AArch64 | Huawei EulerOS | 2.0 SP8 |

* You have installed and started Docker. Docker Community Edition 17.03 or later is recommended.

* The default port 7000 for OAT is not occupied.

## Procedure

1. Download the installation package of OAT.

   For more information, see [Prepare installation media](../300.deployment/200.deploying-ocp/100.deploying-a-single-point-of-ocp/100.prepare-installation-media-single-point.md).

2. Run the `scp` command to upload the OAT installation package to the server.

   In the following command, `oat_server` indicates the IP address of the server where OAT is to be deployed.

   ```shell
   scp <oat_directory> <oat_server_user>@:<oat_server_ip>
   ```

3. Mount the OAT directory.

   Create a directory named `/data_dir` on the server to save persistent data of OAT.

   After the `/data_dir` directory is mounted to the OAT container, OAT will automatically create the `/data_dir/logs`, `/data_dir/images`, and `/data_dir/db` directories respectively for storing OAT system logs, component and product Docker images in OAT, as well as database files of OAT.

   ```shell
   mkdir -p /data_dir
   ```

4. Load the OAT installation package as an image.

   ```shell
   docker load -i oat.tar
   ```

5. Run the `docker images` command to obtain the tag of the OAT image.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>If only one OAT installation package is loaded, just run the following command. If multiple installation packages are loaded, run the docker images command to view the loaded images and then concatenate the first two columns with a colon ( : ) in the command output.</p>
  </main>

   ```shell
   oat_image=`docker images | grep oat | awk '{printf $1":"$2"\n"}'`
   ```

6. Run the `docker run` command to start OAT.

   ```shell
   docker run -d -v /data_dir:/data -p 7000:7000 --restart on-failure:5 $oat_image
   ```

7. After OAT is started, enter `http://<<oat_server_ip>:7000` in the address bar of the browser.

   If the logon page appears, OAT is successfully installed and started.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>The default logon username and password of OAT are admin and aaAA11__. You must change the password upon initial logon.</p>
  </main>
