FAQ on OBProxy
===================================

This topic describes frequently asked questions about OBProxy management.

Supported features
---------------------------------------

**Q1: Can I take over an OBProxy cluster that was created through other means onOCP?**

A: No, you cannot take over an OBProxy cluster that was created through other means. We recommend that you delete the cluster and reinstall it.

OBProxy use
--------------------------------

**Q1: Why am I unable to access MetaDB on OCP?**

A: If no request is sent to OBProxy for 24 hours, OBProxy will delete the cluster resources. Then, you cannot connect to MetaDB by using OBProxy. This issue has been resolved in OBProxy V1.8.6 and later.

**Q2: I can directly connect to OceanBase Database. When I used OBProxy to connect to OceanBase Database, an error occurred while creating the cluster at at the `wait cluster accessible` step. Why am I unable to connect to OceanBase Database by using OBProxy?**

A: If the host is configured with a Squid proxy server, connecting to OceanBase Database by using OBProxy will fail. We recommend that you disable the proxy server.

**Q3: Why no connection is displayed in the OBProxy drop-down list on the OBProxy tab of the Password Box page after I created a connection on this tab?**

A: If no OBProxy cluster exists in OCP, the created connections will not be displayed in the dropdown list. We recommend that you create an OBProxy cluster first.

OBProxy installation
-----------------------------------------

**Q1: Which access URL can I enter when I create an OBProxy cluster?**

A: In external deployment, F5 Big-IP LTM is deployed, you can enter the IP address of F5 Big-IP LTM. In internal deployment, you can enter the IP address of the internal OCP Proxy.

**Q2: What can I do if I fail at the `set root@proxysys password` step when I install OBProxy ?**

A: You can set the value of the **skip_proxy_sys_private_checked** boot parameter to `true` on the OBProxy cluster creation page before deployment.

**Q3: An error occurred when I was installing OBProxy. Error message: `Failed to check odp connection DrizzleConnection` . What can I do ?**

A: The client address must be set to the specified CIDR block. You can set the value of the **skip_proxy_sys_private_check** boot parameter to `true` to skip this limit.

**Q4: I set the value of the skip_proxy_sys_private_checked boot parameter to `true` when I was creating an OBProxy cluster. A server failed at the `set root@proxysys password` step. What can I do?**

A: We recommend that you check the disk space. If the disk space is insufficient, clear the disk space and reinstall the server.

**Q5: A task framework scheduling error occurs when I install an OBProxy cluster. A server stops in the `Set obproxy user...` step and does not report an error. What I can do?**

A: Change the status of this task in the task_instance table of MetaDB to `FAILED`, and execute the task again.

**Q6: An error occurred when I was using OCP to deploy OBProxy. Error message: `command nc not found` . What can I do?**

A: We recommend that you [Standardize a host](../../850.host-features/600.normalization-agent.md) and then try to deploy OBProxy again.
