FAQ on the OCP software package
====================================================

This topic describes frequently asked questions about the OCP software package.

Display
----------------------------

**Q1: An error occurred when I opened the software package, Error message: `Host with the ID 9 cannot be found` . What can I do ?**

A: Check for dirty data with an ID of 9 in the compute_host_agent and compute_host_service tables in MetaDB. If the data is found, delete it.

Upload a software package
----------------------------------------------

**Q1: An error occurred when I was uploading the software package. How do I deal with it?**

A: Check for extra spaces in the file name of the software package and whether the root directory of the OCP host has sufficient space.

**Q2: What network permissions are required for uploading an OBServer software package when the network is restricted ?**

A: You can upload the RPM package to the OCP server and then upload it by using CURL.

**Q3: After I uploaded the OBProxy software package, it was not displayed in the list. When I tried to upload the package again, the system reminded me that the software package already existed. Why?**

A: OBProxy software packages earlier than V1.8.3 are filtered out and not displayed. We recommend that you use the latest software package.

**Q4: Which table is the uploaded package stored in ?**

A: In OCP V2.4.1, the uploaded package is stored in the file_meta table. In later versions, it is stored in the storage_object_meta table.
