# MonitorDB resources

When OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) runs, it collects performance data from targets under its management. Most data is collected from OceanBase clusters and is stored in MonitorDB. We recommend that you create a separate OceanBase Database tenant for MonitorDB.

For large-scale management scenarios, we recommend that you deploy a separate OceanBase cluster for MonitorDB. The minimum recommended configuration for MonitorDB is to allocate 4 CPU cores and 16 GB of memory for each replica.

## CPU and memory

We recommend that you allocate CPU and memory resources to each replica of the MonitorDB tenant based on the number of OBServers managed by OCP.

The following table lists the recommended CPU and memory resources for each replica of the MonitorDB tenant.

| **Number of managed OBServers** | **CPU (core)** | **Memory (GB)** |
|---------------------------------|----------------|-----------------|
| ≤10                             | 4              | 16              |
| ≤50                             | 16             | 64              |
| ≤100                            | 32             | 128             |
| ≤200                            | 64             | 256             |
| ≤400                            | 128            | 512             |

## Disk space requirement estimation

* Estimation principles: Monitoring data can be divided into metric data and SQL execution records.

  * Metric data: The storage space used by each OBServer increases by 100 MB to 300 MB daily.

  * SQL execution records: The storage space consumption is related to the business transactions. In general, the space taken up by execution records is about 10 to 50 times of the metric data.

  Based on empirical data, the size of monitoring data on each OBServer increases by 1 GB to 40 GB per day. It is estimated to be 20 GB. OCP uses partitioned tables to store monitoring data. The retention period of the monitoring data varies with the data type:
  * Metric data: Second-by-second data is retained for 8 days and minute-by-minute data is retained for 31 days.

  * SQL execution records: retained for 8 days.


Most of the storage space is occupied by SQL execution records. Therefore, we use SQL execution records as the basis for estimating the disk space requirement.

* Resource estimation formula: The total number of OBServers (server_count) in all managed OceanBase clusters is the key to the resource estimation. The disk space is estimated by using two formulas:

  * Estimated daily data increase for OCP MonitorDB = server_count × 20 GB

  * Estimated MonitorDB space requirement = Estimated daily data increase for OCP MonitorDB × 8 days

* Example: Assume that you have a total of 20 OBServers running in all managed OceanBase clusters. The disk space is estimated in the following two steps:

  * Estimated daily data increase for OCP MonitorDB = 20 × 20 GB = 400 GB.

  * Estimated MonitorDB space requirement = 400 GB/day × 8 days = 3200 GB, which is about 3.2 TB.

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>The preceding disk space estimation result is a ballpark figure. The actual amount of resources varies with the business transactions of MonitorDB.</p>
  </main>
