Role overview
==================================

This topic describes the concept and types of roles in OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP).

Concept
----------------------------

A role in OCP is a collection of permissions. A role only takes effect when it is assigned to a user. A user with roles can only operate within their authorized scope. This prevents misoperations from non-professionals and information leakage, thereby ensuring information security.

Roles in OCP include default roles and custom roles. The minimum collection of permissions in OCP is the profile role. A user with the profile role can visit the User Center and modify their personal information and password box.

**Default roles**
--------------------------------------

  <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>Default roles cannot be edited or deleted.</p>
  </main>

Default roles are system-preset roles and cover most of you general needs in permission management. For example, the admin role, which has all the management permissions, and the tenant_manager role, which has all the OceanBase tenant management permissions, are default roles.

Choose **System Management \> Security** . You can view all [default roles](../1300.appendix-2/1800.ocp-default-roles.md) of OCP and their respective permissions on the **Role Management** tab.

**Custom roles**
-------------------------------------

OCP allow you to create custom roles. Compared to default roles, you can assign more fine-grained permissions to a custom role, such as specifying the clusters or tenants in a cluster that a user can access. You can use custom roles together with default ones to create diversified permission policies.

The following table describes the permissions that you can assign to a custom role.

|  **Permission**     |  **Description**    |
|------------|-------------|
| Cluster permissions      | You can assign the **Create Tenant** , **Read-only** , **Update** , **Delete** , or all of the precedingpermissions to specified clusters.    |
| Tenant permissions     | You can assign the **read-only** , **update** , **delete** , or all of the preceding permissions to specified tenants in specified clusters.    |
| backup and recovery permissions | You can assign the following permissions: <ul><li> **Create** : install the backup and recovery module and initiate backup and recovery  </li><li> **Read-only** : view backup and configuration information  </li><li> **Update** : update configurations and manages the component  </li><li> **Delete** : delete configurations  </li></ul> |
| System permissions       | The permission to create OceanBase clusters.   |
