# Overview

This topic describes the operations supported by the custom monitoring feature of OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP), such as the creation and query of collection items, metrics, and charts, and how to associate a metric with an alert rule.

If the built-in monitoring features of OCP cannot meet your requirements, you can create custom monitoring metrics and charts at the system level, such as those for OceanBase Database services, OceanBase Database Proxy (ODP), and hosts as needed.

The custom monitoring feature consists of **collection items**, **metrics**, and **charts**.

* **Collection items**: A collection item is a piece of raw monitoring data collected from a data source.

* **Metric**: A metric is an indicator whose value is calculated from a Prometheus expression that is generated with different collection items based on the PromQL syntax.

* **Chart**: A chart contains sequential data that is generated based on one or more metrics.

In addition to displaying the preceding three types of metadata, OCP also allows you to create custom metrics and charts, and associate a metric with an alert rule.

## Collection items

On the **Collection Items** tab, you can search for collection items by using keywords in their names. This tab contains all the collection items that can be used to create custom metrics.

## Metrics

On the **Metrics** tab, you can search for built-in and custom metrics by using keywords in their names.

## Charts

On the **Charts** tab, you can search for built-in and custom charts by using keywords in their names.
