# Enable the OCP multi-cluster mode

This topic describes how to change standard OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) clusters into leader and follower OCP clusters in multi-cluster mode.

## Prerequisites

OCP clusters of V3.1.1 or later versions have been installed.

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
   <h4>Notice</h4>
   <p>The OceanBase clusters managed by the OCP clusters must have different names. Otherwise, follower OCP clusters cannot be registered with the leader OCP cluster. </p>
   </main>

## Procedure

1. Run the `docker exec -it ocp bash` command to enter the OCP container.

2. Run the `env | grep -i metadb` command to check whether the following MetaDB environment variables are set:

   ```SQL
   OCP_METADB_HOST
   OCP_METADB_PORT
   OCP_METADB_USER
   OCP_METADB_PASSWORD
   OCP_METADB_DBNAME
   ```

   If not, run the following commands to set the MetaDB environment variables:

   ```SQL
   # The following sample variable settings are provided for your reference only. You need to change the values based on the actual situation. 
   export OCP_METADB_HOST="xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx"
   export OCP_METADB_PORT="2881"
   export OCP_METADB_USER="ocp@ocp_meta"
   export OCP_METADB_PASSWORD="******"
   export OCP_METADB_DBNAME="meta_01"
   ```

3. Run the `cd /home/admin/ocp-server/bin` command to go to the directory where the `ocp-bootstrap` script is stored.

4. Run the `./ocp-bootstrap -i` command to enter the interaction mode.

5. Perform one of the following steps to change an OCP cluster as needed:

   * Run the `enableMc <OCP_CLUSTER_ID> <OCP_CLUSTER_NAME> <OCP_CLUSTER_ROLE>` command in an OCP cluster to change it into the leader OCP cluster.

      ```shell
      ocp-bootstrap> enableMc 1 ocp1 LEADER
      ```

   * Run the following command in an OCP cluster to change it into a follower OCP cluster.

      ```shell
      ocp-bootstrap> enableMc 2 ocp2 FOLLOWER
      ```

   * After a failover, run the following command in the original leader OCP cluster to change it into an unregistered follower OCP cluster that can be registered with the new leader OCP cluster:

      ```shell
      ocp-bootstrap> unregisterMc
      ```

6. Run the `docker restart ocp` command on the OCP host to restart OCP.

   If two or more OCP instances are deployed in the OCP cluster, restart all OCP instances.
