# node_file_inode_usage

## Description

In Linux, index nodes (inodes) store the following metadata of files: file size, file owner ID, read/write permissions, change timestamp, and block position. 

An inode is an index of a file. The storage of inodes also occupy disk space. If many small files are created, many inodes may be occupied. This alert is triggered when the usage of inodes exceeds 80%. 

## Principle

| Parameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Metric | file_inode_usage |
| Source | This metric is a basic host monitoring metric collected by node_exporter. </br>The inode usage is equivalent to the ratio of IUsed to Inodes in the `df -i` command output. |
| Collected metric | node_filesystem_files_free, node_filesystem_files |
| Metric expression | round(100 - 100 * sum(node_filesystem_files_free{@LABELS}) by (@GBLABELS) / sum(node_filesystem_files{@LABELS}) by (@GBLABELS)) |
| Collection cycle | 1 second |

## Alert rule

| Metric expression | Metric description | Default threshold (unit: percentage) | Detection cycle | Elimination cycle |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| file_inode_usage > 80 | The inode usage. | 80% | 10 seconds | 5 minutes |

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Based on the expression of the metric | Critical | Server |

## Alert templates

* Overview
   * Template: \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}
   * Example: svr_ip=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx node_file_inode_usage
* Details
   * Template: Cluster: \${ob_cluster_name}, host: \${svr_ip}, alert: \${alarm_name}, inode usage \${value_shown} exceeds ${alarm_threshold}%. 
   * Example: Cluster: obcluster, host: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx, alert: node_file_inode_usage, inode usage 2% exceeds 1%. 

## Impact on the system

After all inodes are occupied, no more files can be created in the system. This is fatal to database write operations and will cause transaction commit failures, log synchronization failures, unavailability of OBServers, and other consequences. 

## Possible causes

There are too many small files in the system that occupy a large number of inodes. 

## Suggested solutions

1. View the directory that uses the most inodes. 

   ```yaml
   df -i
   ```

2. Find the directory with the most files. 

   ```yaml
   for i in /target-path/* ; do echo $i; find $i | wc -l | sort -nr; done
   ```

3. Delete junk files. 

   > **Notes**
   >
   > * There may be hidden files in the system. Both soft links and hard links will occupy inodes. Confirm and delete the junk files. 
   > * If there are too many files, an error may be reported when you run the `rm -rf *` command. In this case, you can run the batch-delete command `ls -a | xargs -n 1000 rm -rf`. 
