# os_tsar_cpu_sys_abnormal

## Description

This alert is triggered when the CPU system usage exceeds 40%. 

## Principle

| Parameter | Value |
| --- | --- |
| Metric | cpu_system |
| Source | This metric is a basic host monitoring metric collected by node_exporter. </br>The metric is equivalent to Cpu-sy (percentage of CPU time spent running kernal-mode code) in the top command output. |
| Collected metric | node_cpu_seconds_total |
| Metric expression | 100 * sum(rate(node_cpu_seconds_total{mode="system", @LABELS}[@INTERVAL])) |
| Collection cycle | 1 second |

## Alert rule

| Metric expression | Metric description | Default threshold (unit: percentage) | Detection cycle | Elimination cycle |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| cpu_system > 40 | The percentage of CPU time spent running kernel-mode code. | 40% | 10 seconds | 5 minutes |

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Based on the expression of the metric | Critical | Server |

## Alert templates

* Overview
   * Template: \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}
   * Example: svr_ip=192.168.0.1 os_tsar_cpu_sys_abnormal
* Details
   * Template: Cluster: \${ob_cluster_name}, host: \${svr_ip}, alert: \${alarm_name}, percentage of system CPU time \${value_shown} exceeds ${alarm_threshold}%. 
   * Example: Cluster: obcluster, host: 192.168.0.1, alert: os_tsar_cpu_sys_abnormal, percentage of system CPU time 51.01% exceeds 40%. 

## Impact on the system

The percentage of system CPU time is the percentage of CPU time spent running kernel-mode code. For example, the time can be spent switching thread context, allocating memory, performing I/O operations, and creating a subprocess. If the percentage of system CPU time is high, the CPU time left to applications is limited, which may affect the operation of applications. 

## Possible causes

A high percentage of system CPU time may be caused by a large number of system calls, which are usually initiated by user-mode processes. The possible causes are as follows:

* Context switches frequently occur between threads. 
* A large number of concurrent I/O operations are initiated. 
* A large number of processes are created. For example, applications execute commands to create a large number of subprocesses when running. 
* Other kernel-mode activities are conducted. 

## Suggested solutions

Perform the following steps:

1. Check whether the number of application processes, the number of threads, and the number of subprocesses are as expected. 
2. Run the `iostat` and `iotop` commands to check whether system I/O usage and process I/O usage are normal.