# Start the original primary cluster in read-only mode after a failover

This topic describes how to start the original primary cluster in read-only mode after a failover.

## Background information

After you perform a failover, the cluster exists in the disabled state and can only be deleted. After the failover, some data in the original primary cluster may be missing from the new primary cluster. You can start the original primary cluster in read-only mode, compare the data of the new primary cluster with that of the original primary cluster, and update the new primary cluster if necessary based on the result of the comparison.

## Prerequisites

* The current cluster is the original primary cluster and must be in the DISABLED state.

* The logged-on user has the permission to manage the cluster.

* The OceanBase Database version is V2.2.76 BP1 or later.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Clusters** . In the **Clusters** list, click the name of the target cluster.

2. On the Overview page of the cluster, click **Start as Read-Only Cluster** in the upper right corner.

3. In the dialog box that appears, click **Start** .

   When the cluster is starting, the cluster status changes to **Starting read-only cluster** . After the cluster is started, the cluster status changes to **Running** and the cluster is marked as **Read-Only Cluster** .

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    When the cluster is in the <b>Starting read-only cluster</b> state, you cannot perform any operation on the cluster.
    </main>
