# Scale in an OceanBase cluster and scale down an OceanBase Database tenant

This topic describes how to scale in an OceanBase cluster and scale down an OceanBase Database tenant.

## Scenarios

Scale-in and scale-down are the reverse operations of scale-out and scale-up, respectively. If a cluster has surplus resources or the business traffic declines, you can decrease the resource usage of OBServer nodes by reducing the specifications or number of resource units in tenants, and scale in the cluster by removing OBServer nodes.

## Prerequisites

* When you remove an OBServer node from a cluster, the cluster must be in the **Running** state. When you scale down a tenant, the cluster and the tenant must be in the **Running** state.
* Before you scale down a tenant, we recommend that you perform a major compaction to release the memory occupied by the tenant. For more information, see [Perform a major compaction](../700.tenant-functions/1400.manage-tenant-merge/300.perform-a-major-compaction.md).

## Considerations

* The removal of an OBServer node involves load balancing. The resource units on the removed OBServer node are automatically migrated to other OBServer nodes in the same zone. You can manually migrate the resource units to specific OBServer nodes before you remove the OBServer node. For more information, see [View unit distribution](../600.cluster-functions/1000.manage-cluster-resource/100.view-the-unit-distribution.md).

* The removal of an OBServer node results in the reduction of resources available in the system. If the available resources of remaining OBServer nodes in the same zone are insufficient to accommodate the resource units on the OBServer node to be removed, the resource unit migration fails. Before you remove an OBServer node, we recommend that you go to the **Resource Management** page of the cluster and check whether the remaining resources are sufficient.

* If the remaining OBServer nodes cannot accommodate the data replicas or resource units of all tenants, the removal fails. We recommend that you reduce the specifications or number of resource units before you remove an OBServer node.

## Procedure

### Scale down a tenant

* Reduce the unit specifications of a tenant.

   1. Go to the **Overview** page of the tenant that you want to scale down.

   2. In the **Replica Details** section, click **Edit** in the Actions column, and select unit specifications with smaller values.

      If the unit specifications you need are not available in the **Unit** drop-down list, click **Create Specification** to add a unit specification. Then, you can use the added unit specification.

      <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>We recommend that you use the same specifications for each resource unit in the tenant. </p>
      </main>

* Reduce the number of resource units in a tenant.

   1. Go to the **Overview** page of the tenant that you want to scale down.

   2. In the **Replica Details** section, click **Modify Unit** in the upper-right corner to reduce the number of resource units.

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p><li>We recommend that you use the same number of resource units in each tenant. </li>
   <li>If you want to reduce the number of resource units in an OceanBase cluster of V4.0 or V4.1, you must first upgrade the cluster to V4.2 or later. </li></p>
   </main>

### Scale in a cluster

If the OBServer nodes in your cluster have surplus resources after you scale down tenants, you can scale in the cluster by removing OBServer nodes.

1. Go to the **Overview** page of the cluster that you want to scale in.

2. Select the OBServer nodes that you want to remove and click **Batch Delete** to start the task.

   In general, you must remove the same number of OBServer nodes from each zone to ensure that resources are equally distributed among zones. For example, you can remove one OBServer node from each zone of a cluster in 2-2-2 mode to scale in the cluster to the 1-1-1 mode.

3. Wait until the task of removing OBServer nodes is completed.

   After the task is completed, you can view the deployment mode on the **Overview** page of the cluster and check whether the number of OBServer nodes in the cluster has reduced.

   If yes, tenant resources and data are automatically balanced among the remaining OBServer nodes. You can view the resource unit distribution on the **Resource Management** page of the cluster. For more information, see [View unit distribution](../600.cluster-functions/1000.manage-cluster-resource/100.view-the-unit-distribution.md).

## FAQ

Q: What can I do if the task of scaling down tenants remains in progress?
A: Tenant scale-down involves the migration of replicas, which may take a long time. Please wait until the task is completed. You can execute the following statement to query the `oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANT_JOBS` view and check the task status:

```SQL
-- If the value of JOB_STATUS is INPROGRESS, the task is in progress.
SELECT TENANT_ID, JOB_ID, JOB_TYPE, JOB_STATUS, PROGRESS
FROM oceanbase.DBA_OB_TENANT_JOBS
WHERE JOB_TYPE = 'SHRINK_RESOURCE_POOL_UNIT_NUM'
ORDER BY JOB_ID DESC;
```

Q: What can I do if the task of removing OBServer nodes failed?
A: It is likely that the remaining healthy OBServer nodes cannot constitute the majority of replicas. You need to check the number of tenant replicas.

Q: What can I do if the progress of removing OBServer nodes is slow?
A: The removal of OBServer nodes involves the migration of resource units, which may take a long time to complete. You can modify the parameters that specifies the migration and replication concurrency. Here are some examples:

```SQL
alter system set data_copy_concurrency = 100;
alter system set server_data_copy_out_concurrency = 40;
alter system set server_data_copy_in_concurrency = 40;
```

For more information about the parameters, see [data_copy_concurrency](https://www.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-cn-1000000000220444), [server_data_copy_out_concurrency](https://www.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-cn-1000000000220532), and [server_data_copy_in_concurrency](https://www.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-cn-1000000000220570).

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<p>To prevent the impact on cluster performance, you need to reset the parameters to their original values immediately after the task succeeds. </p>
</main>

Q: What can I do if the task of waiting for the removal of OBServer nodes remains in progress?
A: If an OBServer node has failed before you remove it, the OBServer node is removed after a permanent offline wait period, which is by default 1 hour after the removal task succeeds. The wait task may time out and fail. To solve the issue, you can specify a smaller value for the permanent offline wait period. Here is an example:

```SQL
alter system set server_permanent_offline_time = '120s';
```

For more information about the parameter, see [server_permanent_offline_time](https://www.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-cn-1000000000220626).

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<p>To prevent the impact on cluster performance, you need to reset the parameter to its original value immediately after the task succeeds. </p>
</main>
