ob_tenant_operation_info
=============================================

**Description**
------------------------------------

This alert is triggered when you perform O\&M operations on tenants in the OCP console.

Principle
------------------------------

None

**Alert information**
------------------------------------------

| Trigger method  | Alert level | Scope  |
|-----------------|-------------|--------|
| Reminder of OCP | Reminder    | Tenant |

**Alert rule**
-----------------------------------

| Metric | Default threshold | Source | Duration  | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
|--------|-------------------|--------|-----------|-----------------|-----------------------|
| None   | None              | None   | 0 seconds | 60 seconds      | 5 minutes             |

**Alert templates**
----------------------------------------

* Overview: \${alarm_target} \${alarm_name}

* Details: \${alarm_target} \${operation_name} \${operation_result}, operator \${operator}

* Overview example: ob_cluster=C1-1000:tenant_name=tenant-1 Create cluster SUCCESS

* Details example: ob_cluster=C1-1000:tenant_name=tenant-1 Create cluster SUCCESS, operator admin

Where,

* ${alarm_target} indicates the object that generates an alert. This field follows the ob_cluster=xxxxxxx format. ob_cluster indicates the name of the cluster that generates the alert.

* ${operation_name} indicates the operation that was performed.

* ${operation_result} indicates the operation result. Valid values SUCCESS or FAILED, where SUCCESS indicates that the operation was successful and FAILED indicates that the operation failed.

* Operator: ${operator} indicates the username of the operator who performed the operation.

**Impact on the system**
---------------------------------------------

No impact

**Possible cause**
---------------------------------------

This problem is commonly found in tenant-level O\&M operations in the OCP console, for example, adding or deleting replicas.

**Suggested solution**
-------------------------------------------

Ignore successful operations. For failed operations, find the causes of the failure and take actions to fix the issues accordingly.
