# Take over a cluster

You can perform this operation to take over an OceanBase cluster created in a command-line tool or another OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) cluster and maintain and manage the OceanBase cluster in the current OCP cluster.

## Prerequisites

* The logon user who takes over the OceanBase cluster has the Cluster Manager role, or the permission to create a cluster.

* All OBServer nodes in the OceanBase cluster to be taken over are running normally.

   <main id="notice" type='notice'>
    <h4>Notice</h4>
    <p>After an OceanBase cluster is taken over, it cannot be maintained and monitored in the original OCP cluster. We recommend that you evaluate the risk before taking any action. </p>
   </main>

## Procedure

1. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Clusters**.

2. On the page that appears, click **Take over Cluster** in the upper-right corner.

3. Connect to the cluster. The following two connection modes are supported:

   1. **Direct Connect**: Specify **Access URL**, **Port**, and **root@sys Password** of the cluster, and enter the password of the proxyro user as needed. Then, click **Next**.

      <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>OBProxy uses the password of the proxyro user to access the OceanBase cluster. You can enter the password here. If you do not enter the password, the default password of the proxyro user is used. </p>
      </main>

   2. **OBProxy**: Specify **Access URL**, **Port**, **Cluster Name**, **Cluster ID (Optional)**, and **root@sys Password** of the cluster, and enter the password of the proxyro user as needed. OBProxy uses the password of the proxyro user to access the OceanBase cluster. If you do not enter the password, the default password of the proxyro user is used. Then, click **Next**.

      <main id="notice" type='explain'>
      <h4>Note</h4>
      <p>OBProxy uses the password of the proxyro user to access the OceanBase cluster. You can enter the password here. If you do not enter the password, the default password of the proxyro user is used. </p>
      </main>

4. After the cluster is connected, perform pre-takeover check.

   * When the check succeeds, select the host, type, and credentials, and click **Submit** in the lower part of the page.

   * If the check fails, move the pointer over the icon next to **Failed**, modify the OBServer configuration as prompted, and then click **Recheck**.
