# Stop a cluster

You can stop a cluster as needed. Stopping a cluster also stops the observer processes running on all nodes in the cluster. Proceeds with caution.

## Prerequisites

* You must log on to the OCP console with an account that has the permissions to manage the cluster.

* Stop the OceanBase cluster when the business traffic of the cluster is low.

   This is because when you stop a cluster, your businesses are interrupted, and no solution is available to avoid the impact. Proceed with caution. We recommend that you stop a cluster only when it is no longer in use.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Clusters** to go to the **Clusters** page.

3. In the **Clusters** list on the page, find the target cluster and click its name.

4. In the upper-right corner of the **Overview** page, click the **More** icon, and then select **Stop Cluster**.

5. In the dialog box that appears, specify whether to initiate a minor compaction before stopping the observer process, and click **Stop**. By default, this option is selected.

   A minor compaction prolongs the response time required to stop the observer process, but significantly shortens the time required to restore the OBServer node.

6. In the dialog box that appears, click **View Task** to view the progress.

   You can also choose **System Management > Tasks** to view the progress of the task.

   When the task status is **Completed**, and the status of the cluster is **Stopped** in the **Clusters** list on the **Clusters** page, the cluster is stopped.

7. Start the cluster.

   If you want to use the stopped OceanBase cluster again, click **Start Cluster** in the upper-right corner of the **Overview** page of the cluster.
