obproxy_process_dead
=========================================



Description
--------------------------------

The Agent checks whether an OBProxy process exists. OCP queries the status of an existing process once every second. If 1 is returned, the corresponding process exists. If 0 is returned, the corresponding OBProxy process does not exist and this alert is triggered.

Alert information
--------------------------------------



|            Trigger method             | Alert level | Scope  |
|---------------------------------------|-------------|--------|
| Based on the expression of the metric | Stopped     | Server |



Alert rule
-------------------------------



|         Metric         |    Default threshold    |                     Source                      | Duration | Detection cycle | Elimination cycle |
|------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------------------------------------|----------|-----------------|-------------------|
| obproxy_process_exists | 0 (cannot be connected) | The OCP-Agent checks the local OBProxy process. | 0s       | 10s             | 5 min             |



Alert templates
------------------------------------

* Overview: \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}



* Details: \${alarm_target} \${alarm_name}



* Overview example: obproxy_cluster_id=3:obproxy_cluster=obproxy_02:svr_ip=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. The OBProxy process does not exist.



* Details example: obproxy_cluster_id=3:obproxy_cluster=obproxy_02:svr_ip=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. The OBProxy process does not exist.






${alarm_target} indicates the object that generates the alert. It follows the obproxy_cluster_id=xx:obproxy_cluster=xx:svr_ip=xx format. obproxy_cluster_id indicates the ID of the OBProxy cluster where the alert is generated. ob_cluster indicates the name of the OBProxy cluster where the alert is generated. svr_ip indicates the IP address of the OBProxy machine where the alert is generated.

Impact on the system
-----------------------------------------

As the proxy layer of the OBServer cluster, the OBProxy provides access to OBServer. If the OBProxy process does not exist, your application cannot connect to the database.

Possible causes
------------------------------------

The following are the common possible causes:

* A network communication error occurs.



* The OBProxy process has stopped abnormally.



* The OBProxy process is alive but is unresponsive, without reporting its heartbeat.






Solutions
------------------------------

Check for the cause of the OBProxy process exception and recover the OBProxy process.

* If the OBProxy machine is damaged, replace it with a new one.



* If the OBProxy is no longer required, you can delete it.



* If a process exception occurs, handle the issue by referring to [ob_cannot_connected](../200.ob-alert/100.ob_cannot_connected-observer-cannot-be-connected.md).





