# Stop or start an ODP cluster

This topic describes how to stop or start all OceanBase Database Proxies (ODPs) in an ODP cluster. After you stop an ODP cluster, you can click **Start All** to restart the ODP cluster.

To stop an ODP cluster that is providing services, we recommend that you stop ODPs in the cluster in batches based on your load-balancing strategy. For more information, see [Stop an ODP](../400.manage-a-obproxy-server/450.stop-or-start-an-obproxy.md).

<main id="notice" type='notice'>
<h4>Notice</h4>
<p>If you stop an ODP cluster, all ODPs in the cluster are stopped, which causes business interruptions. Proceed with caution. </p>
</main>

## Prerequisites

* You have logged on to the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console and are assigned the OBPROXY_MANAGER role.

* If an ODP cluster contains an ODP that is in the **Upgrading** state, you cannot stop the ODP cluster.

* Stopping ODPs causes business interruptions. We recommend that you perform the operation when the business traffic is low.

## Procedure

You can stop an ODP cluster by using the following two methods:

* **Method 1**: Go to the **OBProxy** page, find the ODP cluster that you want to stop, and choose **More > Stop All** in the **Actions** column.
* **Method 2**: Go to the **Overview** page of the ODP cluster that you want to stop, and click **Stop All**.

The following procedure demonstrates how to use **Method 2**.

1. Log on to the OCP console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **OBProxy**.

3. In the **Clusters** list, select the target ODP cluster to go to its **Overview** page.

4. Click **Stop All**.

5. In the dialog box that appears, click **OK**.

6. In the dialog box that appears, click **View Task** to view the progress.

   When the task enters the **Completed** state, and the status of all ODPs is displayed as **Stopped** in the **OBProxies** list on the **Overview** page, the task is successfully executed.

7. Start the ODP cluster.

   If you want to use the stopped ODP cluster again, go to the **Overview** page of the ODP cluster, click the **More** icon in the upper-right corner, and then select **Start All**.
