Log error PAM Permission Denied 
====================================================

The Pluggable Authentication Modules (PAM) is a component of the Linux system. PAM provides dynamic authentication support for applications and services. If the configuration of the system causes the configured PAM authentication procedure to fail, the OCP-Agent pos_proxy process will not be able to run commands. 

Problem 
----------------------------

When you run OCP-Agent 2.4.0 or later versions on a Linux system, such as Red Hat, CentOS, or AliOS 7, and 

* add a host, a sub-task failed and the `sudo: pam_open_session: Permission denied` error appears in the log.

  

* deploy a cluster, a sub-task failed and the `sudo: pam_open_session: Permission denied` error appears in the log.

  

* deploy OBProxy, a sub-task failed and the `sudo: pam_open_session: Permission denied` error appears in the log.

  




Possible causes 
------------------------------------

The configured PAM of the Session type failed to authenticate the status of the corresponding operations. General causes include:

* An error occurred while authenticating sudo permission: You have not granted the required permission for the corresponding user to access the `/etc/sudoers` file.

  

* An error occurred while authenticating the system resource constraint configuration: You have configured improper system resource constraints by using the ulimit command or in the `/etc/security/limits.conf` file.

  




Solutions 
------------------------------

* If you are not sure about the specific cause, try the following methods one by one to solve the problem.

  

* When the failure is caused during sudo permission authentication, perform the following steps to grant the required sudo permission to the corresponding user.

  






* When the failure is caused during system resource constraint configuration, try the following two solutions:

  




<!-- -->








