Check the sudo permissions of a user 
=========================================================

This topic describes how to verify whether you have the permission to use sudo commands when you use a Java SSH tool, for example, JsCh, to connect to a remote host. During Linux interactions, the Java client hangs, resulting in thread blocking. Therefore, the key is to skip the password entry interaction after you run a sudo command. 

Background 
-------------------------------

The following two authorization methods are available for logging on to a host by using an SSH tool:

* Authorization with the username and password. You can use the username and password to log on by using 'ssh xxx@xx.xx.xx.xx.

  

* Authorization with the private key. You can use a private key on a client to log on to a host, provided that the public key that is paired with the private key exists in the authorized_keys file of the host. This is a password-free logon.

  




Logon with a username 
------------------------------------------

To verify whether a user that has logged on by using `ssh root@password` has sudo permissions, run the following command: 

```shell
echo password |sudo -S ls
```



Three different results may be returned in the following three cases. 

* The user has sudo permissions.

  




<!-- -->



<!-- -->

* The user does not have sudo permissions. In this case, the command returns the following information: \`\[sudo\] password for xxx: xxx is not in the sudoers file. This incident will be reported.\`

  




Logon with a private key 
---------------------------------------------

During logon with a private key or password-free logon, the Java client does not know the password of the user. The host must be configured to allow the user to run sudo commands without a password. That is, the following line exists in the /etc/sudoers file:

```shell
username ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL
```



The above configuration specifies that the specified username can execute any commands without password. 

Therefore, before verifying whether a user has sudo permissions, you must run the following command to determine whether the user can run sudo commands without entering a password: 

```shell
sudo -n true
```



If no result is returned for the above command, the user is allowed to run sudo commands without a password and has sudo permissions. 

If `sudo: a password is required` is returned, the user must enter a password to run sudo commands.

Verify the result 
--------------------------------------

```shell
echo password |sudo -S ls >/dev/null 2>&1; echo $?
```



If 0 is returned, the execution succeeds and the user has sudo permissions. If 1 is returned, the execution fails and the user does not have sudo permissions. 

```shell
sudo -n true >/dev/null 2>&1; echo $?
```



If 1 is returned, the host is configured to allow the user run sudo commands without a password. If 0 is returned, the host is not configured to allow the user run sudo commands without a password. 



