FAQ about OBProxy takeover 
===============================================



FAQ 
------------------------

**Q1: The check result indicates that no connectable cluster information can be obtained for the OBProxy and a connectable OceanBase cluster must be configured for the OBProxy.** 

A: Go back to the original OCP cluster and find the OBProxy cluster where the OBProxy is installed. Go to the **Overview** page of the OBProxy cluster, and click **Add Connectable OceanBase Cluster** . If you cannot find the original OCP cluster, the OBProxy cluster cannot be taken over by the new OCP cluster. 

**Q2: The check result indicates that the OBProxy host has two obproxy processes in total and the OBProxy host must have only one running obproxy process.** 

A: We recommend that you retain only one obproxy process to meet your business requirements and delete all others. 

**Q3: The check result indicates that the executable files of the OBProxy are stored in the /home/admin directory, but the executable files must be stored in /opt/taobao/install/\<obproxy directory\>.** 

A: The OBProxy cannot be taken over if it is not installed by using the official RPM package. 

**Q4: The check result indicates that two OBProxy RPM packages are found on the OBProxy host, and only one RPM package is supported.** 

A: Run the `rpm -qa | grep obproxy` command on the host of the to-be-taken-over OBProxy to view the OBProxy RPM packages installed on this host. 

* If two or more RPM packages are installed, retain only the RPM package of the active obproxy process and delete others. To do this, perform the following steps:

  1. Switch to the administrator and query the version of the active obproxy process. 

     ```shell
     [root]# su - admin
     $ ps -ef | grep 
     ...
     admin      
     50459 
           1 42 11:14 ?        00:14:16 ./bin/obproxy -p 2883 -n zsy_obproxy -o prometheus_sync_interval=1s,obproxy_config_server_url=http://xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:81/services?User_ID=alibaba&UID=test&Action=GetObProxyConfig&ObproxyClusterName=zsy_obproxy,prometheus_listen_port=2884,enable_metadb_used=false,skip_proxy_sys_private_check=true,log_dir_size_threshold=10G,proxy_mem_limited=2G,enable_proxy_scramble=true,enable_strict_kernel_release=false
     ...
     
     $ ls -l /proc/ 
     50459 
     /exe
     lrwxrwxrwx 1 admin admin 0 Sep  9 11:39 /proc/50459/exe -> /opt/taobao/install/obproxy-1.8.3/bin/obproxy
     ```

     

     The process originates from the `/opt/taobao/install/obproxy-1.8.3/bin/obproxy` directory and the OBProxy version is V1.8.3.
     
  
  2. Query the number of OBProxy RPM packages installed on the server, and run the `rpm -e` command to delete packages that are irrelevant to the active obproxy process. 

     ```shell
     [root]# rpm -qa | grep obproxy
     obproxy-1.8.3-1913214.el7.x86_64
     obproxy-1.8.3.1-1920014.el7.x86_64
     [root]# rpm -e obproxy-1.8.3.1-1920014.el7.x86_64
     [root]#
     ```

     
  

  

* If no OBProxy RPM package is installed, the OBProxy cannot be taken over. In this case, the returned information is empty: 

  ```shell
  [root]# rpm -qa | grep obproxy
  [root]#
  ```

  




**Q5: The check result indicates that the obproxy process must belong to an administrator, but the current user is the root user.** 

A: Switch to the administrator and restart the obproxy process, or cancel the taking over action. The following example describes how to restart the obproxy process as the administrator:

1. Run the following command to stop the current obproxy process: 

   ```shell
   # View the PIDs of the obproxy process and the obproxyd process. 
   ps -ef | grep obproxy | grep -v grep
   
   # Stop the obproxy process and the obproxyd process. 
   kill -15 [obproxyd process PID]
   kill -15 [obproxy process PID]
   ```

   

2. Switch to the administrator and restart OBProxy. 

   ```shell
   # Switch to the administrator.
   su - admin
   
   # Go to the OBProxy installation directory.
   cd /opt/taobao/install/<your OBProxy directory>
   
   ./bin/obproxyd.sh -c start -e private -n <OBProxy name>
   ```

   




**Q6: The check result indicates that the OBProxy cluster (test_obp1) and the OBProxy cluster (test_obp) are working in different modes.** 

A: Check whether the target cluster that you want to take over can be replaced. 

* If the target cluster cannot be replaced, it cannot be taken over.

  

* Otherwise, you can create an empty OBProxy cluster that has the same working mode as that of the target OBProxy cluster, and then use the empty OBProxy cluster to take over the target OBProxy cluster.

  




**Q7: The check result indicates that the connectable OceanBase cluster of OBProxy is not managed in the current OCP cluster, and the OceanBase cluster needs to be taken over first.** 

A: We recommend that you first use the current OCP cluster to take over the connectable OceanBase cluster of the OBProxy and then take over the OBProxy. 
**Note**



In this case, the current OCP-Server generally does not have an OBProxy cluster that can take over the OBProxy. You can create an empty OBProxy cluster and then use this empty OBProxy cluster to take over the OBProxy. After that, you can operate, maintain, and manage the OBProxy and its connectable OceanBase clusters in the OCP cluster. You can also cancel the taking over of the OBProxy.

**Q8: The check result indicates that the connectable OceanBase clusters of the OBProxy that I want to take over are not among the connectable OceanBase clusters of the target OBProxy cluster.** 

A: The connectable OceanBase clusters of the to-be-taken-over OBProxy are not connectable OceanBase clusters of the target OBProxy cluster. Therefore, you cannot use the target OBProxy cluster to take over the to-be-taken-over OBProxy. We recommend that you use one of the following methods based on your actual business situation:

* Add the connectable OceanBase clusters of the to-be-taken-over OBProxy to the list of connectable OceanBase clusters of the target OBProxy cluster. For more information, see [Add a connectable OceanBase cluster](../800.obproxy-management/1000.add-a-connectable-ob-cluster.md). Then, take over the cluster that you want to take over.

  

* Create an empty OBProxy cluster and make sure that it has the same connectable OceanBase clusters as those of the to-be-taken-over OBProxy. Then, use the empty OBProxy cluster to take over the to-be-taken-over cluster.

  




**Q9: The check result indicates that the OBProxy that I want to take over and the target OBProxy cluster have different connectable OceanBase clusters. However, they should have exactly the same connectable OceanBase clusters.** 

A: The connectable OceanBase clusters of the to-be-taken-over OBProxy must match those of the target OBProxy cluster in RsList startup mode. When they do not have matching connectable OceanBase clusters, you cannot use the target OBProxy cluster to take over the OBProxy. We recommend that you use a target OBProxy cluster that has the matching connectable OceanBase clusters to take over this OBproxy.
