ocp_remote_server_time_diff_too_large 
==========================================================



**Description** 
------------------------------------

This alert is triggered when the time difference between the clock of the OCP-Server and that of the remote host managed by the OCP-Server is too large.

Principle 
------------------------------

OCP-Server checks the clock offset with a remote host by running the `clockdiff -o {ip}` command once every minute. When the offset exceeds the threshold, this alert is triggered. The default threshold is 500 ms and is specified by the system parameter ocp.host.check.clock-diff.max-diff.

**Alert rule** 
-----------------------------------



| Metric | Default threshold (unit: ms) | Duration  | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
|--------|------------------------------|-----------|-----------------|-----------------------|
| None   | 500                          | 0 seconds | 1 minute        | 5 minutes             |



**Alert information** 
------------------------------------------



|  Trigger method   | Alert level | Scope  |
|-------------------|-------------|--------|
| Metric expression | Critical    | Server |



**Alert templates** 
----------------------------------------

* Overview: \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

  

* Details: \${alarm_target} \${alarm_name}. The time difference between the OCP-Server and the remote host is too large. The remote host time is \${remote_server_time} and the OCP-Server time is \${ocp_time}. The threshold is \${max_interval_millis} ms.

  

* Overview example: The time difference between the OCP-Server and the remote host is too large. The current difference is 1400 ms, exceeding the threshold of 500 ms.

  

* Details example: The time difference between the OCP-Server and the remote host is too large. The current time difference is 1400 ms, exceeding the threshold of 500 ms.

  




**Impact on the system** 
---------------------------------------------

* The system cannot send RPC requests.

  

* Authorization may fail.

  

* Errors may occur while querying some metrics.

  




Possible causes 
------------------------------------

This problem is commonly found in the following scenarios:

* The clock of the OCP-Server is malfunctioning.

  

* The clock of the remote host is malfunctioning.

  




Suggested solutions 
----------------------------------------

1. Check the clock of the OCP-Server. 

   Check whether the alert is reported multiple times in the OCP console. 
   * If no, go to Step 2.

     
   
   * Otherwise, the problem is likely to have been caused by the malfunctioning clock of the OCP-Server. 

     We recommend that you first ensure the clock of the OCP-Server is properly functioning. 

     The problem may also be caused by clock synchronization exceptions between the OCP-Server and the clock source. For more information, see [host_ntp_offset_too_large](../300.application-alert/1900.host_ntp_offset_too_large-host-ntp-offset-too-large.md). 

     Check whether the alert recurs 5 minutes later.
     
   

   

2. Check the lock of the host managed by the OCP-Server. 

   * When the host managed by the OCP-Server is unavailable or cannot be connected, the following alerts are also triggered at the same time. We recommend that you solve the problems that caused those alerts before manually triggering the synchronization between the host clock and the clock source, and check whether the alert recurs 5 minutes later. 

     * [ob_cannot_connected](../200.ob-alert/100.ob_cannot_connected-observer-cannot-be-connected.md)

       
     
     * [ob_cluster_exists_inactive_server](../200.ob-alert/300.ob_cluster_exists_inactive_server-ob-the-cluster-is-not-working.md)

       
     

     
   
   * The problem may be caused by exceptions of synchronization between the OCP host clock and the clock source. For more information, see [host_ntp_offset_too_large](../300.application-alert/1900.host_ntp_offset_too_large-host-ntp-offset-too-large.md).

     
   
   * If the clocks of the OCP-Server and the host are both normal except that the clocks are not synchronized, you can manually synchronize the clocks. 

     Run one of the following commands based on the clock synchronization service installed on the OCP-Server. 

     ```shell
     # When the NTP service is in use, run the following command for synchronization (xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx indicates the IP address of the clock source that must be specified): 
     ntpdate xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
     
     
     # When the Chrony service is in use, make sure that the clock source has been configured in the /etc/chrony.conf file and run the following command for synchronization: 
     chronyc -a makestep
     ```

     
   

   



