system_obproxy_unavailable 
===============================================



Description 
--------------------------------

This alert is triggered when the OBProxy service port is unavailable.

**Alert information** 
------------------------------------------



|  Trigger method   | Alert level |  Scope  |
|-------------------|-------------|---------|
| Timed task of OCP | Critical    | Service |



**Alert rule** 
-----------------------------------



| Metric | Default threshold | Source | Duration | Detection cycle | Elimination cycle |
|--------|-------------------|--------|----------|-----------------|-------------------|
| N/A    | N/A               | N/A    | N/A      | 60s             | 5 min             |



Alert templates 
------------------------------------

* Overview: \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

  

* Details: \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

  

* Overview example: ocp_ip=xxx.xxx.xxx.1:obproxy_address=xxx.xxx.xxx.2:obproxy_port=2888 The system OBProxy is unavailable.

  

* Details example: ocp_ip=xxx.xxx.xxx.1:obproxy_address=xxx.xxx.xxx.2:obproxy_port=2888 The system OBProxy is unavailable.

  




Where, ${alarm_target} indicates the object where the alert is generated, in the ocp_ip=xx:obproxy_address=xx:obproxy_port=xx format. ocp_ip is the IP address of the OCP node that detects the alert. obproxy_address is the service address of the OBProxy that generates the alert. obproxy_port is the service port number of the OBProxy that generates the alert.

Impact on the system 
-----------------------------------------

As the proxy layer of the OBServer cluster, the OBProxy provides access to OBServer. If the OBProxy cannot be reached, applications cannot connect to the database through the OBProxy.

Possible causes 
------------------------------------

The following are the common causes:

* A network communication error occurs.

  

* The OBProxy process has stopped abnormally.

  




Solutions 
------------------------------

* Check whether the network communication is faulty.

  On the OCP host, run `netstat -a | grep -i established | grep "${obproxy_address}:${obproxy_port}"` and check the information returned. 
  * If the command returns information, the network communication is normal.

    
  
  * If not, a network communication error occurs. Check the specific fault that has caused the network communication failure. For example,

    * If the OBProxy host fails, we recommend that you replace an OBProxy.

      
    
    * If the network is disconnected due to a firewall, set the firewall properly.

      
    

    
  

  

* Check whether the OBProxy process is normal. 

  In OCP, select the OBProxy host and check whether relevant OBProxy processes are normal in the **Processes** list on the **OCP Agent** tab. 

  If an OBProxy process is abnormal, restart it and check whether the OBProxy is normal. For details on how to restart an OBProxy process, see Start OBProxy in the OceanBase Database documentation.
  






