backup_process_dead
========================================



Description
--------------------------------

This alert indicates whether the backup or recovery service is inactive. It is triggered when the backup and recovery module stops working.

Principle
------------------------------

OCP-Server runs the following commands by using the OCP-Agent to check the status of the backup or recovery service.

```shell
cd /home/admin/oceanbase && bash ./bin/agent.sh exist_restore
cd /home/admin/oceanbase && bash ./bin/agent.sh exist_backup
```


The return value 1 indicates that the service is active. Otherwise, the alert is triggered.

**Alert rule**
-----------------------------------



| Metric | Default threshold | Duration  | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
|--------|-------------------|-----------|-----------------|-----------------------|
| None   | None              | 0 seconds | 60 seconds      | 5 minutes             |



**Alert information**
------------------------------------------



| Trigger method  | Alert level |  Scope   |
|-----------------|-------------|----------|
| Reminder of OCP | Stopped     | Services |



**Alert templates**
----------------------------------------

* Overview: \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}



* Details: \${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}



* Overview example: service=Backup:svr_ip=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. The backup or recovery service is inactive.



* Details example: service=Backup:svr_ip=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. The backup or recovery service is inactive.






${alarm_target} follows the ob_cluster=xxxxxxx:svr_ip=xxxxxx format.

* ob_cluster indicates the name of the cluster that generated the alert.



* svr_ip indicates the IP address of the OBServer of the cluster that generated the alert.






**Impact on the system**
---------------------------------------------

The corresponding cluster cannot be backed up.

**Possible causes**
----------------------------------------

The backup and recovery module malfunctions or a configuration error occurs.

Suggested solution
---------------------------------------

Check the logs of the backup and recovery module to locate the cause of the failure.

The logs include agentserver.log and agentrestore.log, and are located under: /home/admin/oceanbase/log of the server where the backup and recovery services are run.
