Deploy OCP 
===============================

This topic describes how to deploy OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) Community Edition. 

Prerequisites 
----------------------------------

* A Docker container is installed on the host in which you want to deploy OCP. You can search for relevant information about how to install a Docker container on the Internet.

  




<!-- -->

* The ocp-3.1.1-ce.tar.gz software package is obtained. For more information, see [Prepare for the installation](../2.deployment-guide/4.installation-preparation.md). 

  * Upload the ocp_installer.sh file in the software package to any directory of the host as the root user.

    
  
  * Upload the OCP image file `ocp3.1.1-1931448.tar.gz` in the software package to any directory of the host as the root user.

    
  

  




Procedure 
------------------------------

1. Log on to the OCP host as the root user and go to the directory where the ocp_installer.sh file is located.

   

2. Run the following command to make the ocp_installer.sh file executable: 

   ```shell
   chmod +x ocp_installer.sh
   ```

   

3. Use the ocp_installer.sh file to generate a configuration file, whose name is specified after -c. 

   ```shell
   ./ocp_installer.sh genconf -c ocp.yaml
   ```

   

4. Modify the ocp.yaml configuration file generated by the ocp_installer.sh file. 

   ```shell
   OCP_IP_ARRAY=(xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx)
   
   SSH_USER=root
   SSH_PORT=22
   SSH_AUTH='password'
   SSH_PASSWORD='******'
   SSH_KEY_FILE='/root/.ssh/id_rsa.pub'
   
   OCP_METADB_HOST=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx
   OCP_METADB_PORT=2881
   OCP_METADB_USER=<METADB username>
   OCP_METADB_PASSWORD='******'
   OCP_METADB_DBNAME=<METADB name>
   OCP_MONITORDB_USER=<MONITORDB username>
   OCP_MONITORDB_PASSWORD='******'
   OCP_MONITORDB_DBNAME=<MONITORDB name>
   OCP_WEB_PORT=8080
   
   OCP_LB_VIP=
   OCP_LB_VPORT=
   
   OCP_IMAGE=/root/ocp3.1.1-1931448.tar.gz
   OCP_CPU=16
   OCP_MEMORY=20G
   OCP_LOG_DIR=/tmp/ocp_logs
   ```

   

   Parameters in the file:
   * OCP_IP_ARRAY: the IP address of the OCP host.

     
   
   * SSH_USER: the user used to install OCP. Default value: root.

     
   
   * SSH_PASSWORD: the password of the root user of the OCP host.

     
   
   * OCP_METADB_HOST: the IP address of the MetaDB host. The value must be the same value that you specified for servers in the mini-single-example.yaml file when you deploy OceanBase Database. For more information, see [Deploy OceanBase Database](5.prepare-metadb-and-monitordb/2.deploy-the-oceanbase-database.md).

     
   
   * OCP_METADB_PORT: the port number for MetaDB. The value must be the same value that you specified for mysql_port in the mini-single-example.yaml file when you deploy OceanBase Database. For more information, see [Deploy OceanBase Database](5.prepare-metadb-and-monitordb/2.deploy-the-oceanbase-database.md).

     
   
   * OCP_METADB_USER: the MetaDB user created in [Create tenants](5.prepare-metadb-and-monitordb/3.deploy-create-a-tenant.md), which is ocp@ocp_meta.

     
   
   * OCP_METADB_PASSWORD: the password of the ocp@ocp_meta user specified in [Create tenants](5.prepare-metadb-and-monitordb/3.deploy-create-a-tenant.md).

     
   
   * OCP_METADB_DBNAME: the name of MetaDB.

     
   
   * OCP_MONITORDB_USER: the MonitorDB user created in [Create tenants](5.prepare-metadb-and-monitordb/3.deploy-create-a-tenant.md), which is ocp@ocp_monitor.

     
   
   * OCP_MONITORDB_PASSWORD: the password of the ocp@ocp_monitor user specified in [Create tenants](5.prepare-metadb-and-monitordb/3.deploy-create-a-tenant.md).

     
   
   * OCP_MONITORDB_DBNAME: the name of MonitorDB.

     
   
   * OCP_IMAGE: the path of the OCP image. You must set this parameter to the actual path used in **Prerequisites**.

     
   

   

5. Run the following command to install OCP Community Edition: 

   ```shell
   ./ocp_installer.sh install -c ocp.yaml
   ```

   



