ob_cluster_operation_info 
==============================================



**Description** 
------------------------------------

This alert is triggered when you perform O\&M operations on OceanBase clusters in the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console. 
**Note**



After alerts at the reminder level are cleared, no notification is returned.

Principle 
------------------------------

None.

**Alert rule** 
-----------------------------------



| Metric | Default threshold | Source | Duration  | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
|--------|-------------------|--------|-----------|-----------------|-----------------------|
| None   | None              | None   | 0 seconds | 0 seconds       | 5 minutes             |



**Alert information** 
------------------------------------------



| Trigger method  | Alert level |  Scope  |
|-----------------|-------------|---------|
| Reminder of OCP | Reminder    | Cluster |



**Alert templates** 
----------------------------------------

* Overview: ${alarm_target} ${operation_name} ${operation_result}

  

* Details: ${alarm_target} ${operation_name} ${operation_result}, operator ${operator}

  

* Overview example: ob_cluster=C1-1000 Create cluster SUCCESS

  

* Details example: ob_cluster=C1-1000 Create cluster SUCCESS, operator admin

  






* ${alarm_target} indicates the object that generated the alert, in the ob_cluster=xxxxxxx format. ob_cluster indicates the name of the cluster that generated the alert.

  

* ${operation_name} indicates the operation that was performed.

  

* ${operation_result} indicates the result of the operation. Valid values: SUCCESS and FAILED, where SUCCESS indicates that the operation was successful and FAILED indicates that the operation failed.

  

* Operator ${operator} indicates the username of the operator who performed the operation.

  




**Impact on the system** 
---------------------------------------------

An operation with the result SUCCESS can be ignored. If the result is FAILED, the operation failed.

**Possible cause** 
---------------------------------------

This problem is commonly found when you perform O\&M operations on OceanBase clusters in the OCP console, such as adding or deleting OBServers.

Suggested solutions 
----------------------------------------

Handle alerts at the reminder level if necessary. 

If the operation result is FAILED, go to **System Management \> Tasks** of the OCP console to view the task logs and analyze the cause of the failure.
