obproxy_cannot_connected 
=============================================



Description 
--------------------------------

The Agent checks the connection status of the OBProxy, and OCP queries the connection status once every second. If the value 1 is returned, the OBProxy can be connected. If the value 0 is returned, the OBProxy cannot be connected and this alert is triggered.

Alert information 
--------------------------------------



|            Trigger method             | Alert level | Scope  |
|---------------------------------------|-------------|--------|
| Based on the expression of the metric | Stopped     | Server |



Alert rule 
-------------------------------



|       Metric        |    Default threshold    |                               Source                                | Duration | Detection cycle | Elimination cycle |
|---------------------|-------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|-----------------|-------------------|
| obproxy_connectable | 0 (cannot be connected) | The connection test between OCP-Agent and OBProxy on the local host | 0s       | 10s             | 5 min             |



Alert templates 
------------------------------------

* Overview: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

  

* Details: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

  

* Overview example: obproxy_cluster_id=3:obproxy_cluster=obproxy_02:svr_ip=192.168.1.1. The OBProxy cannot be connected.

  

* Details example: obproxy_cluster_id=3:obproxy_cluster=obproxy_02:svr_ip=192.168.1.1. The OBProxy cannot be connected.

  




${alarm_target} indicates the object that generates the alert. It follows the obproxy_cluster_id=xx:obproxy_cluster=xx:svr_ip=xx format. obproxy_cluster_id indicates the ID of the OBProxy cluster where the alert is generated. ob_cluster indicates the name of the OBProxy cluster where the alert is generated. svr_ip indicates the IP address of the OBProxy machine where the alert is generated.

Impact on the system 
-----------------------------------------

As the proxy layer of the OBServer cluster, the OBProxy provides access to OBServer. If the OBProxy cannot be connected, your application cannot connect to the database.

Possible causes 
------------------------------------

The following are the common possible causes:

* A network communication error occurs.

  

* The OBProxy process has stopped abnormally.

  




Solutions 
------------------------------

Check for the cause of the OBProxy connection failure and recover the OBProxy process. 

* If the OBProxy machine is damaged, replace it with a new one.

  

* If the OBProxy is no longer required, you can delete it.

  

* If a process exception occurs, handle the issue by referring to [ob_cannot_connected](../2.ob-alert/1.ob_cannot_connected-observer-cannot-be-connected.md).

  



