# ob_cluster_operation_info

## Description

This alert is triggered when you perform O\&M operations on OceanBase clusters in the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console.

O&M tasks:

* Disable/Enable SQL collection
* Stop/Start a cluster
* Restart a cluster
* Migrate/Take over a cluster
* Delete a cluster
* Upgrade a cluster
* Perform routine switchover/Perform switchover for disaster recovery
* Decouple a standby cluster
* Pull a read-only cluster
* Generate performance reports
* Cluster backup and restore
  * Back up now
  * Automatically schedule backups
  * Initiate a restore
  * Schedule a second backup
* Zone O&M operations
  * Add a zone
  * Stop a zone
  * Start a zone
  * Restart a zone
  * Delete a zone

## Principle

None.

## Alert rule

| Metric | Default threshold | Source | Duration  | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
|--------|-------------------|--------|-----------|-----------------|-----------------------|
| None   | None              | None   | 0 seconds | 0 seconds       | 5 minutes             |

## Alert information

| Trigger method  | Alert level |  Scope  |
|-----------------|-------------|---------|
| Reminder of OCP | Reminder    | Cluster |

## Alert templates

* Overview: \${alarm_target} \${operation_name} \${operation_result}

* Details: Cluster:\${ob_cluster_name}, Alert: \${operation_name}, Operator: \${operation}

* Overview example: ob_cluster=C1-1000 Create cluster SUCCESS

* Details example: Cluster:obcluster-1, Alert: Create cluster SUCCESS, Operator: admin

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>NOTE</h4>
    <ul>
    <li>${alarm_target} indicates the object that generated the alert, in the ob_cluster=xxxxxxx format. ob_cluster indicates the name of the cluster that generated the alert.</li>
    <li>${operation_name} indicates the operation that was performed.</li>
    <li>${operation_result} indicates the result of the operation. Valid values: SUCCESS and FAILED, where SUCCESS indicates that the operation was successful and FAILED indicates that the operation failed.</li>
    <li>Operator ${operator} indicates the username of the operator who performed the operation.</li>
    </ul>
  </main>

## Impact on the system

An operation with the result SUCCESS can be ignored. If the result is FAILED, the operation failed.

## Possible cause

This problem is commonly found when you perform O\&M operations on OceanBase clusters in the OCP console, such as adding or deleting OBServers.

## Suggested solutions

Handle alerts at the reminder level if necessary.

If the operation result is FAILED, go to **System Management \> Tasks** of the OCP console to view the task logs and analyze the cause of the failure.
