# ob_cluster_rs_not_same

## Description

This alert is triggered when the RootServer information configured in the config server of an OceanBase cluster is inconsistent with the actual RootServer information of the cluster.  

## Principle

OceanBase Database updates the RootServer information for the resource whose URL is specified by the `obconfig_url` parameter. OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) attempts to access the resource identified by the resource identifier and compares the obtained RootServer information with the actual RootServer information of the cluster. If OCP cannot obtain the resource based on the resource identifier, or the obtained RootServer information is inconsistent with that of the cluster, this alert is triggered.

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
|--------|------|----|
| Event trigger | Critical | Cluster |

## Alert templates

* Overview: ${alarm_target} ${alarm_name}

* Details: The RootServer information of the ${ob_cluster_name}:${ob_cluster_id} cluster is inconsistent with that configured in the config server. Check the ConfigUrl parameter of the cluster.

* Overview example: The RootServer information configured in the config server is incorrect.

* Details example: The RootServer information of the obcluster-1:10000 cluster is inconsistent with that configured in the config server. Check the ConfigUrl parameter of the cluster.

## Impact on the system

Incorrect RootServer information in the config server may cause errors to the OBProxy of the cluster.

## Possible causes

* The URL configured for the `obconfig_url` parameter of the OceanBase cluster cannot be accessed.

* The URL configured for the `obconfig_url` parameter of the OceanBase cluster is incorrect.

## Solutions

* Execute the following statement to check whether the URL specified by the `obconfig_url` parameter of the cluster is consistent with the value the `ConfigUrl` parameter of the current OCP.

   ```sql
   SHOW PARAMETERS LIKE 'obconfig_url'
   ```

  * If yes, check whether the URL can be accessed.

  * If not, execute the following statement to set the `obconfig_url` parameter of the OceanBase cluster to the value of the `ConfigUrl`parameter of the current OCP and ensure that the config server is accessible.

      ```sql
      ALTER SYSTEM SET `obconfig_url`='...'
      ```
