obproxy_cannot_connected
==========================================================

Description
-------------------------

This alert is triggered when the OBProxy is disconnected. 

Principle
-------------------------

The following table describes the key parameters that are involved in the monitoring and alerting logic. 

| Parameter | Value |
|-------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Metric | obproxy_connectable |
| Source | OCP-Agent checks the local OBProxy connectivity by establishing a socket connection to `localhost:2883`. The timeout value is 0.8s.  |
| Collected metric | obproxy_connectable |
| Metric expression | min(obproxysys_connectable{@LABELS}) by {@GBLABELS}   |
| Collection cycle | 1 second |

  <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>The metric source of this alert is special. OCP-Agent checks the local OBProxy connectivity by establishing a socket connection to <code>localhost:2883</code> and returns the result to the collected metric. </p>
    <ul>
    <li>The port number 2883 in the <strong>Source</strong> row is obtained by querying the <code>config.conf</code> file in <code>home/admin/ocp_agent</code>. </li>
    <li>The value of the metric <code>obproxy_connectable</code> indicates the OBProxy connectivity. Valid values: <code>1</code> and <code>0</code>. The value <code>1</code> indicates that the OBProxy is connectable and <code>0</code> indicates that it is unconnectable. </li>
    </ul>
  </main>

The alert is triggered when the value of the metric is `0`. 

Alert rule
-------------------------

| Metric | Default threshold | Duration | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
|---------------------|------|------|------|------|
| obproxy_connectable | 0 | 0 seconds | 10 seconds | 5 minutes |

Alert information
-------------------------

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
|------------|------|-----|
| Based on the expression of the metric | Stopped | Server |

Alert templates
-------------------------

* Overview template: \${alarm_target} \${alarm_name}

* Details template:
   OBProxy cluster: \${obproxy_cluster}. Host: \${host}. Alert: \${alarm_name}. Cause: ${failed_reason}. 

* Overview example: obproxy_template_id=0:obproxy_cluster=obproxy_01:host=xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. OBProxy cannot be connected.

* Details example: OBProxy cluster: obproxy_02. Host: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. Alert: OBProxy cannot be connected. Cause: OBPROXY_CONNECTION_ERROR. 

`${alarm_target}` indicates the object that generated the alert, in the `obproxy_template_id=xx:obproxy_cluster=xx:host=xx` format. `obproxy_cluster_id` indicates the ID of the OBProxy cluster that generated the alert. `obproxy_cluster` indicates the name of the OBProxy cluster that generated the alert. `svr_ip` indicates the IP address of the OBProxy server that generated the alert. 

Impact on the system
---------------------------

OBProxy provides access to an OceanBase cluster as the proxy. When OBProxy is not connected, the application cannot connect to the database. 

Possible causes
-------------------------

This problem is commonly found in the following scenarios:

* A network communication error occurs.

* The obproxy process unexpectedly stops.

Solutions
-------------------------

Check the causes of OBProxy disconnection and recover the connection. 

* If the OBProxy server is damaged, replace it with a new one. 

* If the OBProxy node is no longer needed, you can delete it. 

* If a process exception occurs, see [ob_cannot_connected](100.ob_cannot_connected.md). 
