# refresh_location_cache_failed

## Description

If the OBServer failed to refresh the location cache, the tenant SQL request may time out, which may affect your business.

## Principle

OCP-Agent (ocp_monagent) monitors the operational logs of OBServer nodes. This alert is triggered in the following two scenarios:

1. The following keywords continuously appear in the log in one minute:

   ```SQL
   LOCATION_STATISTIC
   SYS_CORE
   suc_cnt=0
   sql_suc_cnt=0
   ```

   The preceding keywords can be expressed by using a regular expression: `.\*LOCATION_STATISTIC.\*SYS_CORE.\*suc_cnt=0.\*sql_suc_cnt=0.\*`.

2. The following keyword appears in the log:

   ```SQL
   fail to check is local server.*ret=-4018
   ```

## Alert information

| Trigger method | Alert level | Scope |
| ---------------- | -------- | ------ |
| OceanBase Database log analysis | Critical | Server |

## Alert rule

| Metric | Default threshold | Duration | Detection cycle | Time before clearance |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| N/A | N/A | 1 minute | 1 minute | 5 minutes |

## Alert templates

* Alert overview: ${alarm_name}] ${alarm_target}

* Alert details: Cluster: ${ob_cluster_name}. Host: ${host}. Alert: ${alarm_name}. Log file: ${filename}. Log level: ${log_level}. Keywords = ${keyword}. Error code = ${error_code}. TraceId = ${trace_id}. Log details = ${error_message}.

* Details example: Cluster: TEST_CLUSTER. Host: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx. Alert: OBServer failed to refresh the location cache. Log file: /home/admin/oceanbase/log/observer.log. Log level: info. Keywords = .*LOCATION_STATISTIC.*SYS_CORE.*suc_cnt=0.*sql_suc_cnt=0.* Error code = -1. TraceId=YB4221BC464C-0005E787BCF9D46A. Log details = [2023-04-26 14:03:35.555318] INFO [SHARE.PT] ob_location_update_task.cpp:88 [18597][734][YB4221BC464C-0005E787BCF9D46A] [lt=35] [dc=0] [LOCATION_STATISTIC] dump location cache statistics(queue_type="SYS_CORE", suc_cnt=0, fail_cnt=0, sql_suc_cnt=0, sql_fail_cnt=1, total_cnt=1, avg_wait_us=0, avg_exec_us=1537290).

## Impact on the system

Incorrect location information may cause the following impacts on the system:

1. Timeout of business SQL requests.
2. Accumulated request queue of the SYS tenant. To check whether requests are accumulated, you can check the value of the `req_queue:total_size` parameter by using the `dump tenant info` keywords.

## Possible causes

Known system failure.

## Solutions

1. Connect to the OBServer node from the SYS tenant.

2. We recommend that you execute the following statement to refresh the location cache when the OBServer fails:

   ```SQL
   select count(*) from oceanbase.all_virtual_proxy_schema where tenant_name = "sys" and database_name = "oceanbase" and table_name = "all_core_table" and partition_id = 0;
   ```

3. If **Step 2** does not work, we recommend that you restart the server.

4. The refresh of the location cache may fail in the following case, which rarely happens: a read-only replica is dropped by changing the locality of the primary tenant in the cluster, the OBServer node or zone where the read-only replica is located is deleted later on, and the `fail to check is local server(ret=-4018)` error message continuously appears in the log for a specified period in scenarios such as a leader switchover, regardless of whether the switchover is triggered by an O&M operation or a fault. In this case, you can directly connect to all OBServer nodes in the cluster and execute the `alter system flush location cache` statement to refresh the location cache.
