# Edit a tenant replica in a zone

This topic describes how to edit a tenant replica in a zone.

## Precautions

* If the cluster version is OceanBase Database V4.0.0 or later but earlier than V4.2.0, you cannot reduce the number of units for zones, and only **full-featured replicas** are supported.
* If the cluster version is OceanBase Database V4.2.0 or later, **full-featured** and **read-only replicas** are supported.
* If the version of the cluster of a user tenant is OceanBase Database V4.2.0 or later and the tenant parameter <code>enable_rebalance</code> is set to <code>false</code>, you cannot change the number of units for zones.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Tenants** to go to the **Tenants** page.

3. In the **Tenants** list, find the target tenant and click its name. The Tenant Details page appears.

4. In the **Replica Details** section, you can perform different operations based on the version of the OceanBase cluster.

   * In a **standalone centralized** database, you can modify only the unit specifications for a tenant.

   * For a tenant in a **distributed cluster**:

      * If the cluster version is earlier than OceanBase Database V4.0.0, you can click **Edit** in the Actions column to modify the replica type, unit specifications, and number of units for zones.

      * If the cluster version is V4.0.0 or later, you cannot separately change the number of units for a single zone. You can click **Modify Unit** in the upper-right corner to modify the number of units and unit specifications for all zones in the tenant. You can also click **Edit** in the Actions column to modify the replica type and unit specifications for a single zone.

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p><ul><li>We recommend that you configure consistent specifications for all resource units in the same tenant. </li><li>If the cluster version is OceanBase Database V4.0.0 or later, the unit specifications are limited by default. If you want to use specifications lower than the default specifications, you can modify the <code>__min_full_resource_pool_memory</code> parameter to adjust the minimum values for the unit specifications. For example, if your cluster version is OceanBase Database V4.1.0, you can modify the parameter by referring to the <a href="https://www.oceanbase.com/docs/common-oceanbase-database-cn-10000000001697240">Modify cluster parameters</a> topic. </li></p>
    </main>

5. Click **OK**.
