# Switchover

This topic describes the primary/standby switchover procedure. You can choose one of the following switchover methods based on the business needs:

* Method 1: Perform a switchover for a specified primary tenant.
* Method 2: Perform a switchover for all primary tenants in a cluster.

## Method 1: Perform a switchover for a specified primary tenant

You can switch a specified primary tenant to a standby tenant.

### Prerequisites

The current primary tenant has at least one standby tenant in the **Running** state.

### Procedure

1. Log on to the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Tenants**. In the tenant list, select the target primary tenant to go to its basic information page.

2. Click the More icon in the upper-right corner and select **Routine Switch** from the menu.

3. In the dialog box that appears, confirm the information and click **Start Switch**.

   * If the primary tenant has multiple standby tenants, you must select a standby tenant for the switchover from the **New Primary Tenant** drop-down list.
   * If the synchronization mode of the selected standby tenant is **Archiving-based** and archiving is not enabled for the standby tenant, you must first configure an archiving address. The following table describes the parameters for configuring an archiving address.

      | Parameter | Description |
      |--------|---------|
      | Storage Type | The type of the storage medium for backup files. Valid values:<ul><li>**File**: indicates the local file storage system, which is generally Network File System (NFS). </li><li>**OSS**: indicates Alibaba Cloud Object Storage Service (OSS), which is supported only in OceanBase Database V2.2.76 and later. </li></ul> |
      | Storage Directory | The directory where the backup files are stored on the medium. <main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p>The primary and standby tenants must have the read/write privileges on this directory. </p></main> |
      | Domain | If you select **OSS** for **Storage Type**, enter the access domain name of the OSS bucket. You can append a port number to the domain name, such as `oss.ap-shanghai.myqcloud.com:8080`.  |
      | User | If you select **OSS** for **Storage Type**, enter the username used to access the OSS bucket.  |
      | AccessKey Pair | If you select **OSS** for **Storage Type**, enter the AccessKey pair for accessing the OSS bucket.  |

4. Click the task ID in the dialog box to view the task progress.

## Method 2: Perform a switchover for all primary tenants in a cluster

If you require standby tenants to provide services to ensure service continuity during the O&M of a cluster, you can switch all primary tenants in this cluster to standby tenants before the O&M.

### Prerequisites

You have created primary tenants in the current cluster, and the primary tenants have available standby tenants.

### Procedure

1. Log on to the OCP console. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Clusters**. On the **Clusters** page, go to the **Overview** page of the target cluster.

2. Click the More icon in the upper-right corner and select **Routine Tenant Switch** from the menu.

3. In the dialog box that appears, select the tenants for which you want to perform a switchover and click **Daily Switch**.

   * If a primary tenant has multiple standby tenants, you must select one of the standby tenants as the new primary tenant from the **New Primary Tenant** drop-down list.

      Before you perform a switchover, the system will check the primary and standby tenants against the following conditions. If the check fails, you cannot perform a switchover for the selected tenants.

      * The primary and standby tenants are in the Running state.
      * The clusters of the primary and standby tenants are in the **Running** state and are of the same version.
      * The synchronization latency of the standby tenant does not exceed the threshold, which is 5,000 ms by default. You can choose **System Management** > **System Parameters** and change the value of `ocp.standby.tenant.delay.threshold` to adjust the threshold.

   * If the synchronization mode of the selected standby tenant is **Archiving-based** and archiving is not enabled for the standby tenant, you must first configure an archiving address. The following table describes the parameters for configuring an archiving address.

      | Parameter | Description |
      |--------|---------|
      | Storage Type | The type of the storage medium for backup files. Valid values:<ul><li>**File**: indicates the local file storage system, which is generally NFS. </li><li>**OSS**: indicates Alibaba Cloud OSS, which is supported only in OceanBase Database V2.2.76 and later. </li></ul> |
      | Storage Directory | The directory where the backup files are stored on the medium.   <main id="notice" type='explain'><h4>Note</h4><p>The primary and standby tenants must have the read/write privileges on this directory. </p></main> |
      | Domain | If you select **OSS** for **Storage Type**, enter the access domain name of the OSS bucket. You can append a port number to the domain name, such as `oss.ap-shanghai.myqcloud.com:8080`.  |
      | User | If you select **OSS** for **Storage Type**, enter the username used to access the OSS bucket.  |
      | AccessKey Pair | If you select **OSS** for **Storage Type**, enter the AccessKey pair for accessing the OSS bucket.  |

   <main id="notice" type='explain'>
   <h4>Note</h4>
   <p>This operation may cause the cluster where the new primary tenant resides to be overloaded. Proceed with caution. </p>
   </main>

4. Click the task ID in the dialog box to view the task progress.
