# Restart a faulty OBServer node

This topic describes how to restart an OBServer node.

## Prerequisites

* The logged-on user in the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console has the permission to **update** the target OceanBase cluster.

* The target OceanBase cluster is managed in the current OCP cluster.

   Otherwise, you need to use the current OCP cluster to take over the OceanBase cluster. For more information, see [Take over a cluster](../300.manage-a-cluster/400.take-over-a-cluster.md).

* If the OBServer node to be restarted hosts the only full-featured replica of a tenant, we recommend that you restart the OBServer node during night hours when the business traffic is low.

## Procedure

1. Log on to the OCP console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, click **Clusters** to go to the **Clusters** page.

3. In the **Clusters** list on this page, find the target cluster and click its name to go to the **Overview** page of the cluster.

4. In the **OBServers** list, find the target OBServer node, and then click **Restart** in the **Actions** column.

5. In the dialog box that appears, set the following parameters and click **Restart**.

   * Set **Restart Method** to **Restart** or **Force Restart**.

      * **Restart** (recommended): Business access to the database is not interrupted.

      * **Force Restart**: Business access to the database is interrupted and the business will become unavailable.

   * Specify whether to initiate a minor compaction before stopping the observer process. By default, this option is selected. A minor compaction prolongs the response time required to stop the observer process, but significantly shortens the time required to restore the OBServer node.

    <main id="notice" type='explain'>
    <h4>Note</h4>
    <p>If the OBServer node does not provide services, you can forcibly restart it. Otherwise, we recommend that you do not choose a force restart. In a general restart task, a pre-check is performed before the OBServer node is restarted. The OBServer node will not be restarted if it does not pass the pre-check. This way, your business is not interrupted. </p>
    </main>

6. In the dialog box that appears, click **View Task** to view the progress.

   You can also choose **System Management > Tasks** to view the progress.

   When the task enters the **Completed** state, and the status of the OBServer node is displayed as **Running** in the **OBServers** list on the **Overview** page, the OBServer node is restarted.
