# Manage alert blocking conditions

This topic describes how to edit and delete an alert blocking condition.

## Prerequisites

You have created a blocking condition. For more information, see [Create a blocking condition](23.shielded-alert.md).

## Edit a blocking condition

1. Log on to the OceanBase Cloud Platform (OCP) console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, choose **System Management** > **Alerts**.

3. On the **Alert Masking** tab, specify search criteria in the search area to search for blocking conditions. Exact match is supported. All blocking conditions that match the search criteria will be displayed in the **Blocking Conditions** list.

4. Find the blocking condition to edit and click **Edit** in the **Actions** column.

   In the **Edit Blocking Condition** panel, modify the configurations of the blocking condition. For more information about the parameters, see [Create a blocking condition](23.shielded-alert.md).

5. Click **OK**.

## Delete a blocking condition

1. Log on to the OCP console.

2. In the left-side navigation pane, choose **System Management** > **Alerts**.

3. On the **Alert Masking** tab, specify search criteria in the search area to search for blocking conditions. Exact match is supported. All blocking conditions that match the search criteria will be displayed in the **Blocking Conditions** list.

4. Find the blocking condition to delete and click **Delete** in the **Actions** column.

   > **Notice**
   >
   > A deleted blocking condition cannot be recovered. Proceed with caution.

5. In the dialog box that appears, click **Delete**.
