# PAM permission denied

The Pluggable Authentication Modules (PAM) is a component of the Linux system. PAM provides dynamic authentication support for applications and services. If the configuration of the system causes the configured PAM authentication procedure to fail, the OCP-Agent pos_proxy process will not be able to run O&M.

## Problems

When you run OCP-Agent 2.4.0 or later versions on a Linux system, such as Red Hat, CentOS, or AliOS 7, and

* add a host, a sub-task failed and the `sudo: pam_open_session: Permission denied` error appears in the log.

* deploy a cluster, a sub-task failed and the `sudo: pam_open_session: Permission denied` error appears in the log.

* deploy OBProxy, a sub-task failed and the `sudo: pam_open_session: Permission denied` error appears in the log.

## Possible causes

The configured PAM of the Session type failed to authenticate the status of the corresponding operations. General causes include:

* An error occurred while authenticating sudo permission: You have not granted the required permission for the corresponding user to access the `/etc/sudoers` file.

* An error occurred when you authenticated the system resource constraint configuration: You have configured improper system resource constraints by using the ulimit command or in the `/etc/security/limits.conf` file.

## Solutions

If you are not sure about the specific cause, you can try the following methods one by one to solve the problem.

* When the failure is caused during sudo permission authentication, perform the following steps to grant the required sudo permission to the corresponding user:

  1. Log on to the operating system as the root user.

  2. Open the `/etc/sudoers` file.

     ```bash
     vim /etc/sudoers
     ```

  3. Modify the permissions of the root user and admin user, and save the file.

     ```bash
     root  ALL=(ALL) ALLadmin ALL=(ALL) ALL
     ```

  4. Restart OCP-Agent.

     ```shell
     /home/admin/ocp_agent/bin/ocp_agentctl restart
     ```

<!-- -->

* When the failure is caused during system resource constraint configuration, try the following two solutions:

  * Perform the following steps to modify the system resource constraint configuration:

    1. Log on to the operating system as the root user.

    2. Run the following command to check the maximum number of files that can be opened by processes.

       ```shell
       cat /proc/sys/fs/nr_open
       ```

    3. Open the `/etc/security/limits.conf` file, and set a value smaller than the maximum number of files that can be opened.

       ```shell
       # Assume 655360 is smaller than /proc/sys/fs/nr_opencat >> /etc/security/limits.conf <<EOF* soft nofile 655360* hard nofile 655360EOF
       ```

    4. Restart OCP-Agent.

       ```shell
       export PYTHONPATH=/home/admin/ocp_agent/libs && cd /home/admin/ocp_agent && ./ocp_agentd.py stop basesleep 10export PYTHONPATH=/home/admin/ocp_agent/libs && cd /home/admin/ocp_agent && ./ocp_agentd.py start base
       ```

  * Perform the following steps to remove the PAM authentication for system resource constraints in sessions.

    **Notice**

    * This solution may introduce security risks.

    * It invalidates the ulimit configuration in the Debian/Ubuntu system.

    1. Log on to the operating system as the root user.

    2. Open the PAM configuration file.

       ```shell
       vim /etc/pam.d/sudo
       ```

    3. Delete the following line, and save the file.

       ```shell
       session    required     pam_limits.so
       ```

    4. Restart OCP-Agent.

       ```shell
       export PYTHONPATH=/home/admin/ocp_agent/libs && cd /home/admin/ocp_agent && ./ocp_agentd.py stop basesleep 10export PYTHONPATH=/home/admin/ocp_agent/libs && cd /home/admin/ocp_agent && ./ocp_agentd.py start base
       ```
