# FAQ

This topic describes frequently asked questions about OceanBase cluster management.

## FAQ on accounts and passwords

**Q1: What do I do if I forget the password of the admin user?**

A: You can use another account that has the OCP user management privileges to change the password of the admin user.

**Q2: What are the account and password for logging on to OCP?**

A: The default account for logging on to OCP is `admin` and the default password is `aaAA11__`. We recommend that you change the password of the admin user after you log on OCP for the first time.

For more information, see [Change the password of a user](../../6.user-guide-2/11.system-management-features/9.change-user-password.md).

## FAQ on OceanBase cluster takeover

**Q3: What should I pay attention to when I take over an OceanBase cluster from another OCP?**

A: Pay attention to the following when you take over an OceanBase cluster from another OCP:

Confirm the way that businesses access the OceanBase cluster so as to confirm the impact of the takeover on businesses.

Migrate the cluster from its original OCP, or stop this OCP.

In a single-OCP scenario, the primary OceanBase cluster is taken over before the standby OceanBase cluster.

In a multi-OCP scenario, the primary OceanBase cluster is taken over in any OCP before the standby OceanBase cluster is taken over in any OCP.

## FAQ on OBProxy installation

**Q1: OceanBase clusters are deployed in multiple locations, and there is a need to access read-only zones. How to deploy and configure OB Proxy?**

A: OCP supports the creation of multiple OBProxy clusters and associates them with the same OceanBase cluster. OBProxy will perform routing based on information such as computer room and region. When creating an OBProxy cluster connected to a read-only zone, you need to specify the `proxy_idc_name` parameter.

For more information, see [Change the password of a user](8.obproxy-management/1.create-an-obproxy-cluster.md).
