# OCP-Agent script

This topic describes how to use the ocp_agent_ctl.py script.

## Environment

After you install the software packages of OCP-Agent and OCP-Server, you can find the `ocp_agent_ctl.py` script in the following directories:

* OCP-Server: `/home/admin/ocp-server/lib`

* OCP-Agent: `/home/admin/ocp_agent`

  To run the `ocp_agent_ctl.py` script, you must have Python V2.7.5 and the`pos.py` script. The `pos.py` script is used to perform host operations. It is included in the software packages of OCP-Agent and OCP-Server. Therefore, you can run `ocp_agent_ctl.py` directly in `/home/admin/ocp-server/lib` or `/home/admin/ocp_agent`.
  **Note**

  * If you need to copy `ocp_agent_ctl.py` to another directory for running, you must copy `/home/admin/ocp-server/lib/pos.py` or `/home/admin/ocp_agent/agent/pos.py` to the same directory.

  * The script execution logs will be recorded in the `ocp_agent_ctl.log` file of the same directory.

  * This script can be used for the O\&M of OCP-Agent on the local host. At present, it does not support remote O\&M.

## Command line format

```javascript
python ocp_agent_ctl.py [COMMAND] [OBJECT] [OPTIONS]
```

* COMMAND specifies an operation command, for example, start or stop.

* OBJECT specifies an object to be operated on, for example, ocp_agent.

* OPTIONS specifies additional options, including:

  * -help: This option can be simplified as "-h" and is used to query the usage help of a script.

  * -debug: This option prints debugging logs during script running.

## Examples

### Query the usage help

* Run the following command to query the usage help of the script.

  ```python
  python ocp_agent_ctl.py -h
  ```

  The usage of this script and supported operation commands are returned.
  
* Run the following command to query the usage help of a specific command.

  ```python
  python ocp_agent_ctl.py start -h
  ```

  The usage of the start command and applicable objects are returned.
  
### Install OCP-Agent

* Run the following command to install the OCP-Agent software package.

  ```javascript
  python ocp_agent_ctl.py install /home/admin/t-oceanbase-ocp-agent-2.4.3-1234567.alios7.x86_64.rpm
  ```

* Run the following command to query the installation information.

  ```javascript
  python ocp_agent_ctl.py info
  ```

  The name, version, architecture, and description of the OCP-Agent are returned.
  
  > **Note**
  >
  > The output on Debian or Ubuntu is different from that on other operating systems.
  
### Start OCP-Agent

* Run the following command to start the ocp_agent process.

  ```javascript
  python ocp_agent_ctl.py start ocp_agent
  ```

  After you start OCP-Agent, pos_proxy, node_exporter, and ocp_exporter are also started.

* Run the following command to start all service samples of OCP-Agent.

  ```javascript
  python ocp_agent_ctl.py start ocp_agent ob_monitor obproxy_monitor --ocp_site_url http://localhost:8080 --cluster_name cluster1
  ```

### Stop OCP-Agent

* Run the following command to stop the ocp_agent process.

  ```python
  python ocp_agent_ctl.py stop ocp_agent
  ```

  After you stop the ocp_agent process, pos_proxy, node_exporter, and ocp_exporter are also stopped. The host status is changed to offline and some OCP monitoring metrics will be missing.
  
* Run the following command to stop the ob_monitor process.

  ```python
  python ocp_agent_ctl.py stop ob_monitor
  ```

  After you stop the ob_monitor process, obstat2, ob_logtailer, and ob_cleaner are also stopped. Top SQL, plan cache monitoring, and OceanBase log alerts will be unavailable.
  
### Uninstall OCP-Agent

The following command is used to uninstall the OCP-Agent application and does not stop the ocp_agent process. To completely uninstall OCP-Agent, you need to manually stop the ocp_agent process.

```python
python ocp_agent_ctl.py uninstall
```
